This is Jocobodcast number 300 with echo Charles and me, Jocobodlin. Good evening, I
go. Good evening. And also joining us tonight, Dave Burke. Good evening, Dave. Good evening.
The Secretary of the Navy takes pleasure in transmitting to first Lieutenant Schmedley,
Darlington Butler, United States Marine Corps, the Brevette Medal, which is awarded in accordance
with Marine Corps Order number 26 for distinguished conduct and public service in the presence of the
enemy while serving with second battalion of Marines near Chainsen, China on 13 July 1900.
On 28 March 1901, first Lieutenant Butler is appointed captain by Brevette to take rank from 13
July 1900. A awarded for actions, award department general orders number 177, December 4th,
1915, the president of the United States of America, in the name of Congress takes pleasure in
presenting the Medal of Honor to Major Smedley, Darlington Butler, United States Marine Corps
for distinguished conduct and battle in the engagement of Veracruz Mexico on 22 April 1914.
Major Butler was eminent and conspicuous in command of his battalion. He exhibited courage and skill
in leading his men through the action of the 22nd and in the final occupation of the city.
A awarded for action. The president of the United States of America in the name of Congress
takes pleasure in presenting the Medal of Honor second award to Major Smedley, Darlington Butler,
United States Marine Corps for extraordinary heroism in action as commanding officer of
detachments from the 15th, 13th, 23rd companies and the Marine and sailor detachment from the USS Connecticut.
Major Butler led the attack on Fort Riviera, Haiti on 17 November 1915 following a concentrated
drive several different detachments of Marines gradually closed in on an old French bastion
fort in an effort to cut off all avenues of retreat for the Kaco bandits.
Reaching the fort on the southern side where there was a small opening in the wall,
Major Butler gave the signal to attack and Marines from the 15th company,
poured through the breach, engaged the Kaco's in hand to hand combat, took the bastion,
and crushed the Kaco resistance. Throughout this perilous action,
Major Butler was conspicuous for his bravery and forceful leadership.
So there you go. Major Smedley Butler United States Marine for 34 years.
Fort in the Philippines, China, Central America, fought in the Caribbean during the banana wars,
fought in World War I, although against his wishes he was more in support role.
He's one of only 19 men in history to receive two medals of honor. He's one of only three men to
receive the Marine Corps Brevei, metal, and the metal of honor. And he's the only man in history
to receive two medals of honor and the Brevei metal. And with that career after he retired from
the Marine Corps, he wrote a book called The War is a racket. You heard that right.
The war is a racket. This is a book that harshly condemns war denounces the military
industrial complex, vilifies the captains of industry and politicians along the way,
and disparages Americans, America's foreign actions in war.
So there's a bit of an about face going on. And these are some extreme views that he has.
And when individuals make extreme statements, sometimes that's not the best approach to take,
because sometimes extreme statements, though they may be true or parts of them may be true,
it can also alienate the general populace and kind of lead people to throw the baby out with
the bathwater on some stuff, meaning that they throw away someone's ideas, they throw away all
of someone's ideas because some of the ideas that the person has or the way that they state them
is an extreme manner, which is I personally don't think it's a good idea.
Well, it's a good thing to understand. It's a good thing to understand because what that should
tell you is that if you back off the extremity of your statements a little bit, you're going
to get more people to listen to them. So that's a good thing to understand. And it's also a good
thing to understand that if people are talking in a really extreme way, you shouldn't just say,
you know what, this person just crazy, I'm not going to listen to them. Maybe you should actually
listen to what they try and say and decipher what's just extreme and maybe not true, but are there
kernels of truth in what people are saying? So I think it's a smart idea for us to listen.
And I think as we have watched America's
withdraw from Afghanistan in the late summer of 2021, after 20 years of war, after thousands
of lives, after trillions of dollars, then no progress. Maybe we should at least listen to
what this marine major general, smithly but the most decorated marine that ever lived,
maybe we should listen to some of what he has to say and see if there are some things in there
that makes some sense. We have to get a little basic understanding of smithly butler,
who he was, where he came from, born July 30, 1881, eldest of three sons father was a lawyer
in a junk and a judge. He came from a good background. His grandfather was a congressman
and his father was connected. He was a connected guy and smedly butler went to an exclusive
private school which is sort of an east coast thing. I mean I guess they have them out on the
west coast, but on the east coast is a bigger thing to have exclusive private schools. He went
to one called the Hav referred school. And so you kind of get this image, you know, you kind of get
this image, okay, well, you know, he's this rich kid that went to this exclusive school and then
you hear that he left school 38 days before his 17th birthday to enlist in the marine corps,
which is I think we have to give him credit, right? We just have to say credit. That's pretty much
what you say. Credit. He still got his diploma. They allowed him to graduate. He lied about his age.
And gets commissioned to second lieutenant. So I don't know how he pulled that off.
But this is back in the day man. There's no records. You're just showing up. How old are you? 23?
I went to college. Whatever. People like, oh, okay. You know what I'm saying? This is back in the
day. You're no. Isn't it the kind of or like your ID card is written in. Yeah. Like by hand. Yeah,
you like change that one to a seven. You were good. Yeah, or you just make an adjustments. Yeah.
So I feel like I missed out on a lot of stuff because I didn't have that kind of. I mean, we were close,
you know, but we were just there were still tracking stuff. So he's 16 years old and he
leaves his high school to go and join the marine corps. Show's up. Get to commission as a second lieutenant.
And he's at the Spanish American war is going down. But he gets there a little late.
Ends up showing up and get mo after it's been invaded. After it's been captured.
Doesn't really see any combat gets assigned to the to the Philippine American war.
He shows up there. He's bored at first.
Get's in trouble. Get's temporarily temporarily relieved of command because he's drunk and doing
whatever. Gets his job back. However, October 1899 he gets his first combat action.
It leads 300 Marines in to take the town of Nova Letta. One Marines killed 10 of wounded. His first
sergeant's company first sergeant's wounded. There's a little note about him like panicking at first,
a little bit and then he kind of gets composure. And up in the box of rebellion.
So battle of chains in this is in China. He definitely kind of shows up now. There's a wounded
Marine officer and he is in the trench. Smedly but there's an entrench and he exposes himself
to enemy fire to rescue the Marine. He ends up getting shot in the thigh. His commanding officer
made your woller who later became the best man in his wedding. He commended him and wrote
for such reward as you may deem proper for the following officers. Lieutenant Smedly debutler
for the admirable control of his men in all the fights of the week and for saving a wounded man
at the risk of his own life under very severe fire. And that's what got turned into the
brevet promotion, which the brevet, if my memory serves me correctly, the Marine Corps had it
for like maybe 20 years and it basically was you're getting promoted. It was a promotion. So that's
why even when I read it says, oh he went from from from from first lieutenant to captain. It was
a promotion and then they people that got promoted that way. They eventually got an award called
the brevet medal, which looks like the ribbon of a medal of honor. The medal of honor has the
white. It's a light blue. The brevet with the light blue with stars. The brevet is red with stars.
But it looks very similar as far as the ribbon goes. So he gets that promotion. He ends up in the banana
wars. These are police actions. And these are police actions that we're conducting to maintain
you know trade and and the way we want things to be. The way America wants things to be
in Central America and in the Caribbean. Honduras rolls into Honduras. He gets tasked with defending
the US consulant during a revolt there. He rescues the consulate in Trujillo. He gets this
nickname. His nickname is old Gimleti. Gimlet is a is a hand drill. It's something that it's a
tool. It's an old school tool that used to drill wood. So he had this piercing look that he would
give people. And they called him old Gimleti. Broken service gets out, gets married, has kids, runs a
coal mine in West Virginia goes back in the Marine Corps. It must have been easy to get down in an
out of the Marine Corps back then. He does it a couple times. More fighting in Central America,
the Italian commander in in Nicaragua, fall in the battle of Mazaya, leads the assault,
the bombardment, the assault, and the capture of Kuyoktepe Hill. Next up is Veracruz. These guys are
he's rolling. They're getting it on with these low intensity conflicts. I remember one of my old
senior chief said, what we need is a low intensity conflict in a high per day of Mariah.
Which I always got a kick out of. So that's where he's got going on. These guys are low intensity
conflict, high per day of Mariah. Mexico Veracruz first metal of honor. So they end up going through
Veracruz that kind of clear-knit door to door. There's 5,800 sailors and Marines on this operation.
17 kilodin action, 63 wounded in action. Which if you think about that, 5,800 sailors and marines
are 17 kilodin. So the fighting, I'm trying to say that the fighting wasn't that extreme.
But there was medals of honor given out. Pretty, pretty, a lot. So one army guy got a metal of honor.
Nine Marines got a metal of honor and 46 Navy sailors got the metal of honor.
From this action of Veracruz. So he eventually tried to return the metal and said hey, I didn't
do anything during this and they, not only did they tell them to keep it, they told them you
better wear it too. So that's his first metal of honor. He didn't feel comfortable about it.
But he got it. Haiti, second metal of honor. Fighting the Haitian, the Kaco's rebels,
the rebel group down there. And they have this stronghold he kind of heard me talk about it in the
in the citation there. But he's getting the metal of honor. The whole battle was 20 minutes long.
This assault. There was a one Marine wounded and he was wounded by being hit with a rock in the face.
All 51 of the rebels were killed. So he got the metal of honor for that.
And that's what happened. After that he became like a public administrator or sort of sort of
sort of the military, I don't know, many dictator kind of running things a little bit.
The public works and keep in things, you know, social order. And he also, it's also said that
they hunted the remaining rebels like pigs. World War I comes around. He requests, he wants
to come back again. He had a reputation of being brave. He had a reputation of being smart. He also
had a reputation of being a little bit of a rebel, a little bit unreliable. And so I don't know if
that's why they decided not to put him in combat because I'm thinking if World War I, they would
have been like, oh yeah, you're just the guy we're looking for. He's brave, he's smart, but you're
super crazy, come on up to the front line, we got something for you. But they didn't. He ended up
running this debarcation depot, you know, in the rear. And the by all accounts, he did a great job
and squared this thing away. It was a real mess when he showed up and he squared it away.
And he got the army in the Navy, distinguished service metal. After that, he goes and he's the
commanding general, a quannico. When he was the commanding, this guy was always doing something.
He's one of those people, he always was doing something. When he was the commanding general,
a quannico, they used to form up the troops and they would march to various battle fields,
civil war battle fields and do reenactments. And he would lead the marches. So yeah, I mean,
he's just, they they march from quannico to damgettysburg, right? And he was in front, leading it.
And they got up there. Let's do walk, get these burgers. So so then he's so gets done with that.
Now he has a broken service and he becomes the Philadelphia director of public safety.
And this is like, I need a movie reference here, echo Charles. What's the movie where they're like,
gangsters, they're trying to crack down untouchables? Sure. Okay. So there's, this is the time,
there's speak easy, is in the prohibition is going on. And he comes like law dog, right? He comes into,
he has a personal war on crime for two years. And it seems like when you read about it,
it seems like it's its own movie, right? This guy is going in just ready to take things on. He
was, he wasn't allowed to fire. If I remember this correctly, he wasn't allowed, he found out he wasn't
allowed to fire individual police because the union and whatever. So what he did was he just take and just
move them all around all the time. So they didn't have, they didn't have time to get to know the
local criminals to get paid off. He just moved them all the time. They were moving. That's like one of
the things that he did. And he, he made a lot of enemies because of so many people are corrupt,
made a bunch of enemies. He's fine. He gets kind a little bit. He did it does it for two years.
He cleans up a lot of stuff, but also makes a bunch of enemies. His final shot in the papers
before he went back in the Marine Corps. He's been cleaning up Philadelphia's worse than any
battle I was ever in. When he comes back in, he comes, comes the base commander in San Diego.
Deployed with the Marine Expeditionary Force to China, does a good job there politically,
influences a bunch of people, makes major general at 48 years old. And in that time also,
his dad died, his dad was super influential. He was like I said, he was always kind of,
he was kind of had a spotlight put on one of the things when Mussolini's now in power. He,
and there was some weird, like a conspiracy about Mussolini needed, hitting Ron or something like this,
I forget, but he sort of spread those rumors. I think if he had Twitter, he would have been
a real popular Twitter dude because he started spreading this guy, you know, this guy is a murderer.
And the Italian government, this was before the war, the Italian government, it's like, hey,
get, get your boy in check and they pressured the second half to court martial butter. And they did,
they court martial butter. I think he was the highest ranking military person to be arrested
after the Civil War. So he had arrested and he apologized, they let him off for the reprimand.
The comment on the Marine Corps died at the time and he was kind of in the running and he ends up,
it's pretty obvious that he's not enough of a company guy to get common done and he doesn't get it.
So he retires from the Marine Corps October 1st, 1931. He starts going on like a lecture tour
speaking and he gets paid for it. He donated a bunch of the pay that he gets for the unemployment
relief. He runs for Senate. He loses. He supports the bonus army, which was when the World War
won vets. They had these things called service certificates that they bought. And when they bought
those things, they had, again, I'm sorry if this isn't perfect, but it was something along the lines
of when you bought these things, they had like a 20 year maturity time on them. And the depression's
going on and everyone's like, hey, we want that money and all these veterans, thousands and
thousands of veterans are saying, hey, we, we, we know we gave you that money. We bought those service
certificates, which are like bonds. We want to cash them in now. And the government was like,
hey, those are 20 years, man, you bought those in 19. You got to have another few years before
you can cash those things in. And this is when they had all the big standoffs in the, you know,
the World War I veterans marched down and set up camp in Washington, DC. And he supported that,
gave more speeches. Here's an example. This is when we know where he's had mentally, right?
I don't mean that in a bad way. I mean, we can see what his angle starts to become. This was,
and this was a summary of one of his speeches that was published in socialist magazine. That was
called common sense. It says, I spent 33 years and four months in active military service and
during that period, I spent most of my time as a high class muscle man for big business for Wall Street
and the bankers. In short, I was a raccade tier, a gangster for capitalism. I helped make Mexico
and especially Tampico, which is a city in Mexico, safe for American oil, as interests in 1914.
I helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank Boys to collect revenues in.
I helped in the raping of half a dozen central American republics for the benefit of Wall Street.
I helped purify Nick or Wagua for the international banking house of brown brothers in 1902 to 1912.
I brought light to the Dominican Republic for the American sugar interest in 1916. I helped
make Honduras right for the American fruit companies in 1903. In China in 1927, I helped
see to it that standard oil went on its way unmolested. Looking back on it, I might have given
Al Capone a few hints. The best he could do was operate his racket in three districts. I operated
on three continents. He's kind of pissed. 1934, again, this guy would have been all over Twitter.
1934, he's sort of the leader of this thing that was called the business plot, which was this
that there's this conspiracy that there was this plot for business leaders to overthrow
President Roosevelt. In 1935, he wrote this book called War is a racket.
Now, we're going to read it. Some of it's extreme. Some of it may be too extreme. Some of it's
not accurate. Some of it's his feelings, his emotions. You know, when Colonel David Hacworth,
when he went and talked to the press and you and I have had that discussion day of like
did he give up his influence? He could have been a division came out of Brigade Commander next
in the division commander. I think people sometimes reach a point where they emotionally
can't take it anymore. I think David Hacworth got there where he had seen enough American soldiers
and he loved his soldiers and he loved all soldiers and he loved the army and just to see
the soldiers being utilized in a way that he didn't think was to actually sound eventually.
He just couldn't take anymore. And I think that Major General Smedley Butler got to a similar point.
And of course, this is 1935. So I mean, we got hit learn power in 1933. So he sees,
though he hears the war drums beating and as he sees the war drums beating, he doesn't like it.
What do you thought so far, Dave? It's interesting to hear you recount some things that I
remember, because obviously as a Marine, this is one of the characters in the history of the
Marine Corps that you are given early on. So they give it, they give you Smedley Butler really
on. Oh yeah. Is there, is there not risking that? Aren't they like, well,
the weird thing was that we're at the metal of honors, right? Look, I'm in no position to be like,
well, I'm not sure. But when 46 Navy sailors got a metal of honor and there's 17 kilodin action.
Like that's a, that that seems very, that seems, that seems strange. Yeah. Right. For sure.
Seems strange. And that's the, that's really kind of the point that I'm thinking about in my mind is,
you know, there's a little bit of a contrast. This is a guy that you will hear about. And certainly
in, and listen, you could, I mean, I got to be careful with my words too, because I don't want
there to be a negative connotation to it. But there's a, there's an indoctrination you go through
in your Marine. And that indoctrination is, we're kind of awesome. And our history is pretty awesome.
And we've got some amazing people that did some amazing things. And you start to think about who those
people are. One of the things that's interesting about the name Smedley Butler is when you see the
pictures of this guy. And like, you'll be in a class and it'll be about Marine Corps history. And they'll
literally have a slide or a picture up on the wall of the person. And he's not, he doesn't really
look like a, a, I guess. He looks like poster boy Marine. He looks like a guy named Smedley. He does.
And that went to maybe a private school. This coast. And then, you know, you're, you're seeing
basilone and you're seeing chesty and these pictures. And just the pictures alone are enough to be like,
okay, this, this dude is legit. But, you know, they also, I don't have any recollection of
the things that he did and the times that he did them and there awards. I don't ever remember
being given sort of the other side of it is, hey, listen, there's a different time, different circumstances.
So as I hear you talk about that and I'm listening to that, I just did some basic math, you know,
5,600 people and then you sort of did that W wounded and killed him like, well, I've seen that.
I know what the middle or more of the other side of that looks like and those numbers are good numbers.
You know, by by Sanders, like you said, this is probably not the most high intensity thing
that that that that marines have been through. But the other side is is this is also, I'm
literally, you just say he's 40 years old as a major general. This guy went back in the Marine Corps twice.
This guy had a left high school and by rights, kind of probably just coasted on a pretty easy life.
So you're kind of forced to reconcile and remind that I think to maybe the whole point of this podcast
is that I probably need to listen to what he has to say. But yeah, no, he's, he is one of
the characters that and I'm using that term just, you know, to illustrate that we are introduced
to historic marines that have had impact in history and that's someone that we know about for sure.
We could probably do a whole podcast about awards and whatnot, but I forget what year,
like the bronze star and the silver star, it wasn't, they didn't have those yet at this time.
Yeah. And so this was, if you were going to get an award, it was going to be the metal of water.
And there you go. Again, it's, it's like crazy because you got this guy that has two metal,
two metals of honor and this Marine Corps prevent thing, which there's, there's not many of those things
handed out either. It's a tiny number. And, and also the type of combat that they were going into,
I mean, this is pre-World War I, it's the combat that he's talking about. So combat was totally different
between, you know what, I mean, you got the silver war, we knew what combat was, but, but,
yeah, there've been, there've been a generation maybe that was a little bit,
that that hadn't quite been there. Yeah, and I think the sense that I've always had
was that that when you think of conflict or you think of combat and you think of World War I,
it has a very strong sense of organized conflict between two well-established, well-organized
size, a size that have design and structure and and components that you can almost align against each other.
And that, certainly for World War I, produces probably like the most heavy intensity of conflict.
Whereas before that, you have this sense of this well-organized team, the United States Navy,
the United States Marine Corps, the organization of those two working together, we're, we're going
to get you to the beach, you're going to embark and you're going to, or, or debark and get onto the
land, and we're going to support you and, but the, the people you're in conflict with, you don't have
that level of organization. So when you said, you know, one wounded on the good side in 57
kiln, I'm like, I can, and again, I should be careful wounded by a rock, but you can picture that,
like, this is a lot cited scenario. And it doesn't mean that that weren't incredibly brave
actions that didn't happen to, it's solicit that outcome, but when you think of World War I,
or World War II, or really conflicts we've had since then that organized versus organized,
you don't get those sense of that long period of, of Marine Corps history, and those are all in
Marine Corps history. We, we learn about all those things, but you don't get a sense of this
force on force conflict that were in the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
World War I, World War II, we're going against someone that's pretty much like we are.
Professionally trained professionally outfitted and prepared for for this type of conflict.
Check. So he writes his book wars a racket and people people, I, I don't know, I've had this book for five years.
In fact, I couldn't even find, I have two copies of it, and I haven't, I wouldn't be able to find them.
So you can get this thing on PDF. And the reason I couldn't find them is because the moving scenario,
I'm going to come up there and sell my books or in big giant boxes. And I was like, it's time to do it.
And yeah, what, what makes it time to do it, because, well, one of the things that just
totally provoked me was a trillion dollar price tag on Afghanistan and thousands of lives lost.
And you're thinking, hold on a second. Who, what was, what was the overall goal here?
What we're doing? Because if I, I could spend a trillion dollars and do literally anything,
you can maybe a trillion dollars, a trillion dollars. You're telling me you couldn't square away a
country with a trillion dollars and 20 years. And basically an unlimited supply of people and assets.
It's crazy. So what was going on? So as I'm thinking about that, here I am, a guy that supports
the military that is very patriotic. And I'm thinking, who spends a trillion dollars?
And it doesn't, doesn't get the job done. How does that happen? Who are you? What are you thinking
about? What is your ultimate goal? And that very quickly, my mind very quickly jumped on,
oh, this is probably what's medley, smelly, but now I'd read wars a racket.
I was always kind of like, yeah, well, yeah, I mean, that's one way of looking at it, right?
So let's look at it. Here we go. Chapter one, wars a racket. It always has been.
It's possibly the oldest, easily the most profitable, surely the most vicious. It is the only
one international in scope. It is the only one in which the profits are reckoned in dollars
and the losses in lives. A racket is best described, I believe, as something that is not what it
seems to be to the majority of the people. Only a small inside group knows what it's about.
It is conducted for the benefit of the very few at the expense of the very many out of war,
a few people make huge fortunes. Okay. If we're just going to fact check this thing as we go,
so far we are factual, right? That's what a racket is, right? A racket is something where a
couple of people kind of know what's going on, everything else is getting fooled. A couple of people
inside are going to make a bunch of money. Other people are kind of going to get screwed. That's what's
going to happen. In war, there are people that make a lot of money. He calls it the World War because
there was only one at the time. In the World War, a mere handful garnered the profits of the conflict.
At least 21,000 new millionaires and billionaires were made in the United States during the
World War. That many admitted their huge blood gains, or sorry, that many admitted their huge blood
gains in their income tax returns. How many other war millionaires falsified their tax returns?
No one knows. Okay. So a lot of people made a lot of money in the world. I just saw an article that
there's several billion dollars in taxes that are avoided by the top 1% earners in this country.
So other people that are doing things to get around taxes, yes. Where are there people that were
made into millionaires and billionaires after September 11th? Yes, there were.
Next, how many of these war millionaires shoulder to rifle? How many of them dug a trench?
How many of them knew what it meant to go hungry in a rat and fested dug out? How many of them
spent sleepless, frightened nights, ducking shells and shrapnel and machine gun bullets?
How many of them parried a bayonet thrust of an enemy? How many of them were wounded or killed
in battle?
Ratorical questions that I think we all know the answer to.
Not many.
Out of war, nations acquire additional territory. If they are victorious, they just take it.
This newly acquired territory is exploited by the few. The self-same few who run dollars out
of blood in the war. The general public shoulders the bill.
Fact check. Kind of negative on this one. I mean America speaking of America,
we have kind of our established what we have territory was and we haven't taken any new territory
in recent wars. That's not been our goal. Even the idea that oh, it's going in there to take the oil.
We don't actually go in and take the oil. It hasn't happened.
And what is the bill? This bill renders a horrible accounting.
Newly placed gravestones, mangled bodies, shattered minds, broken hearts and homes,
economic instability, depression and all its attendant miseries,
backbreaking taxation for generations and generations.
Factual feature.
Horrible accounting.
And taxation to pay for these wars for generations.
For a great many years as a soldier, I had a suspicion that war was a racket.
Not until I retired to civil life that I fully realized it.
Now that I see the international war clouds gathering as they are today, I must face it and speak out.
And again, that's because he's looking at world war two. What you call the war clouds.
Again, they are choosing sides. France and Russia met and agreed to stand by side by side.
Italy and Austria are hurried to make a similar agreement. Poland and Germany cast
cast, cast sheep's eyes at each other, forgetting for the nons their dispute over the Polish quarter.
And to look what nons was. It means like a one time deal.
Just hey, we're just going to forget about our dispute over here because we're going to be friends right now.
The assassination of King Alexander of Yugoslavia complicated matters. Yugoslavia and Hungary,
Hungary, long bitter enemies were almost at each other's throats. Italy was ready to jump in,
but France was waiting. So it was Czechoslovakia. All of them are looking ahead to war.
Not the people. Not those who fight and pay and die, only those who foment wars and remain
safely at home to profit.
What are you got? You get a fact check that. No, no, no, no.
Yeah, yeah. I'm kind of sitting here listening to you talk, which is his word.
You read this before? No, I have not. So that's why this is like a it's hard.
Is it hard? And so I'm not wrote down a bunch of different notes.
The last one I just wrote down was was just literally the word angry.
I don't think you're trying to convey that emotion on purpose. It's literally the words that you are
reading. If you just if you try to put yourself in his shoes and I was just kind of recounting.
We were talking about low intensity conflict and maybe the things that happened up until prior to
warmer one. And I did think of something after I was talking a minute ago about the word low
intensity conflict. I do remember the first time I was shot at like for real. And
there's a moment when you're the one who is you know the victim or the potential victim here
it feels like World War III because when you're the one being shot it doesn't really matter
the scope of what's going around you. That sends things like, oh damn, those people are trying
to kill me and they're actually pretty darn close. You don't say, well, you know, in the grand scheme
of historical things this is a very low intensity conflict and this particular engagement isn't.
You don't think like that you think, okay, this is a big deal. There's a huge deal. And then
with you, if you observe that and you're in his shoes and you lead up to the Travis deal over
one, I'm just trying to be empathetic to the level of frustration you would have at the hands of
a few number of decision makers both military and civilian by the way when we talk about
over one. It's not hard for me to try to understand that as he said, I'm just almost pictureing
him writing this down and just the frustration and the anger that he has and how clearly that's
coming through and hearing you say his, the words that he's saying that it's hard not to get a sense
of his frustration. And you've even talked about how hard this is it when you just kind of boil over,
you're not able to really even articulate yourself. I don't mean to say correctly, but
the way that you would normally want to when you can keep your emotions in check.
Yeah. Which you can't. Yeah, I know you got to you found it very interesting when we did,
when we talked about being a child heart, just the fact like once you realized he was in the
battle of the song, you're like, oh, got it. Okay. So this guy has a totally different perspective
which is completely grounded and and fermented in what he experienced on the battlefield. And yeah,
this is, uh, yeah, it's definitely, it's definitely a similar, a similar deal.
Moving on, there are 40 million men under arms in the world today. So this again, this is 1935.
And our statesmen and diplomats have the temerity to say that war is not in the making.
Hell's bells are these 40 million men being trained to be dancers.
Not immediately to be sure. Premier Moosellini knows what they are being trained for.
He, at least, is frank enough to speak out. Only the other day, he'll do J in international
consolation, the publication of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said quote,
and above all, fascism, the more it considers and observes the future and the development of humanity
quite apart from political considerations of the moment believes neither in the possibility nor the
utility of perpetual peace. War alone brings up to its highest tension, all human energy and
puts the stamp of nobility upon the people who have the courage to meet it. And quote,
that's a, it's one thing for Ronald Reagan to say peace through strength and hey, we've got
to be strong and we've got to, you know, the best way to avoid war is to be prepared for it.
But when you got Moosellini to say, hey, there's, I don't believe in the possibility or the
or the freaking utility of peace. War alone brings to its highest tension, all human energy,
and puts the stamp of nobility upon the people who have the courage to meet it.
That's the leader of your country. Guess what's happening? You're going to war in a war.
On doubtily, Moosellini means exactly what he says. His well-trained army, his great fleet of
planes, and even his navy are ready for war, anxious for it, apparently. His recent stand at the
side of Hungary in the latter's dispute with Yugoslavia showed that, and the hurried mobilization
of troops on the Austrian border after the assassination of Dolphus showed it too.
There are others in Europe who's saber-rattling, presages, war, sooner or later.
Paritler, with his rearming Germany and his constant demands for more and more arms,
is an equal if not greater metastopiece. France only recently increased the turn of military
service for its youth from a year to 18 months. All this stuff is going on, he's just tracking it.
He sees everybody's head and head in the war.
Yes, all over nations are camping in their arms. The mad dogs of Europe are on the loose. In the
Orient, the maneuvering is more a joy. Back in 1904, when Russia and Japan fought, we kicked our
old friends, the Russians, and back to PAN. Then our very generous international bankers were financing
Japan. Now the trend is too poison us against the Japanese. What does the open door policy
to China mean to us? Our trade with China is about $90 million a year. Or the Philippine Islands.
We have spent about $600 million in the Philippines in 35 years. And we, our bankers and industrialists
and speculators, have private investments there of less than $200 million.
Then to save China, to save that China trade of about $90 million and to protect these private
investments of less than 200 in the Philippines, we would all be stirred up to hate Japan and go to war.
A war that might well cost us tens of billions of dollars, hundreds of thousands of American
lives, and many more hundreds of thousands of physically maimed and mentally unbalanced men.
Of course, for this loss, there would be a compensating profit. Forchants would be made,
millions and billions of dollars would be piled up by a few. Munitions makers, bankers, ship builders,
manufacturers, meat packers, speculators, they would fare well.
Yes, they are getting ready for another war. Why shouldn't they? They pay high dividends.
But what does it profit the men who are killed? What does it profit their mothers and sisters?
Their wives and their sweethearts? What does it profit their children? What does it profit?
Anyone except the very few to whom war means huge profits? Yes, and what does it profit the nation?
So, I kind of have my thoughts on all this that I'm going to say a little bit.
What's the, I would say the methodology of the argument that he's presenting is to show
one side of the argument, which is a good argument. You can't really come out this argument.
You can't say, well, people aren't going to make money. People make money. That's what happens.
And that by itself is it automatically a bad thing either? That's true. That's the other part.
That's what I'm saying because there's, I know you've got thoughts on this. You're not going to be careful.
I could probably chime in like I usually do an every single thing that says, there's thoughts going through my head.
Crazy. Yes. I mean, there are profit here and there are people that profit.
And if I'm using the terms correctly, you can distinguish between those two.
Right. And they can be aligned for sure. I mean, it's easy for me to sit here on retrospect,
but it's like, hey, Hitler, Mussolini? Yeah, we probably want to go to all those people.
Yeah. Now, not let them do what they want. That's not a good plan.
And I know this now sitting here looking back. But you're right. And I think to your point,
his perspective is correct. It's not the whole story, but it's a perspective that what he sees
and the way he's presenting it is correct. Yes. It's just that there is more tears more. And as
you said, there's nothing more obvious than that than a guy named Edolph Hitler. Right. That's about to go
on a tear and kill millions of people. And it's interesting he's using him like, hey, he might be worse than
this other guy. Yeah, he might be. Yeah, in 1935, he didn't seem so bad compared to Mussolini.
He's going to give a little example. It's simply to take our own case.
Until until 1898, we didn't own a bit of territory outside the mainland of North America.
At that time, our national debt was little more than a billion dollars. Then we became
internationally minded. We forgot or shunted aside the advice of the father of our country.
We forgot George Washington's warning about entangling alliances. We went to war.
We acquired outside territory at the end of the World War period. As a direct result of our
fiddling and international affairs, our national debt had jumped to over 25 billion.
Our total favorable trade balance during the 25-year period was about 24 billion.
Therefore, on a purely bookkeeping basis, we ran a little behind year for year,
and that foreign trade might as well have been ours without the wars.
Again, when you just look at the numbers, run the numbers,
man, we were a billion dollars and that debt and now we're 25 billion dollars and debt, that hurts.
It would have been far cheaper not to say safer for the average American who pays the bills
to stay out of foreign entanglements. For a very few this racket like bootlegging and other
underworld rackets brings fancy profits, but the cost of operations is always transferred to the
people who do not profit. And now we get into chapter two, who makes the profits.
The World War, rather our brief participation in it, has cost the United States some $52 billion
figured out. That means $400 to every American man, woman, and child. And we haven't paid the debt yet.
We are paying it. Our children will pay it and our children's children probably still will be paying
the cost of that war. The normal profits of a business concern in the United States are 6,
8, 10 and sometimes 12 percent. But wartime profits. Ah, that is another matter.
20, 60, 100, 300 and even 1,800 percent. The sky is the limit. All that traffic will bear.
Uncle Sam has the money. Let's get it. Of course, it isn't put that crudely in wartime.
It is dressed into speeches about patriotism, love of country, and quote,
we must all put our shoulders to the wheel. But the profits jump and leap and skyrocket
and our safely pocketed. Let's just take a few examples. Take our friends, the DuPontz, the
powder people. Didn't warn them testified before a Senate committee recently that their powder
won the war or saved the world or saved the world for democracy or something. How did they do in
the war? They were a patriotic corporation. Well, the average earnings of the DuPontz for the period
of 1910 to 1914 was $6 million a year. It wasn't much, but the DuPontz managed to get along.
Now let's look at their average dearly profit during the war years, 1914 to 1918.
$58 million a profit a year we find. Nearly 10 times that of normal times and the profits of normal
times were pretty good. An increase of profits more than 950 percent.
Take one of our little steel companies that patrioticly shunted aside the making of rails and
girders and bridges to manufacture war materials. Well, their 1910 to 1914 yearly earnings average
$6 million then came the war. And like loyal citizens, Bethlehem steel promptly turned to
mission munitions making. Did their profits jump or did they let Uncle Sam in for a bargain?
Well, their 1914 to 1918 average was $49 million a year. Or let's take United Steel.
Normal earnings during the five-year period prior to the war were $105 million a year, not bad.
Then came along the war and up with the profits. The average yearly profit for the period
1914 to 1918 was $240 million, not bad. Then you have some of the steel and powder earnings.
Let's look at something else. A little copper perhaps. That always does well in wartimes
and a condo for instance. Average yearly earnings during the previous pre-year wars of 1910 to
1914 to 1918. During the war, you wore years, 1914 to 1918. Prophets left to $34 million a year.
You talk copper. average of $5 million during the pre-war period. Jump to an average of 21 million
yearly profits for the war period. Let's group these five with three similar companies. The total
yearly average profits of the pre-war period 1910 to 1914 were $137 million. Then came along the war.
The average yearly profits for this group skyrocketed to $408 million. A little increase in profits
of approximately 200%. There's war pay. They paid them. But they aren't the only ones. They're
still others. Let's take leather. For three-year period, before the war, the total profit of
central leather company were $3.5 million. That was approximately $1.16 million a year. Well,
in 1916 central leather returned to profit of $15 million. Small increase of 1,100%. That's all.
A general chemical company averaged a profit for three years before the war of a little over
$800,000 a year. Came the war and profits jumped to $12 million a year. I'll leave a $1,400.
International nickel company. You can't have a war without nickel. Show it an increase in profits
from a mere $4 million a year to $73 million a year. Not bad. An increase of $1,700.
American sugar refining company averaged $2 million a year for three years before the war in
the 1916 a profit of $6 million was recorded. Listen to Senate document number 259,
the 65th Congress reporting on corporate earnings and government revenues, considering the
profits of 122 meat packers, 153 cotton manufacturer, 299 garment makers, 49 steel plants,
340 coal producers during the war. Profits under 25% were exceptional. For instance, the coal
companies made between 100% and 7,800% on their capital stock during a war. The Chicago Packers
doubled and tripled their earnings. Let us not forget the bankers who financed the great war.
If anyone had the cream of the profits, it was the bankers. Being partnerships rather than
incorporated organizations, they did not have to report to stockholders and their profits
were as secret as they were immense. How the bankers made their millions and billions. I do not
know because those little secrets never become public even before a Senate investor, investor,
retiree body. People make money. Part of that is supply and demand. One of the reasons
that America does so well during war is because we have capitalism and that's how we're able
to outprose other countries, especially companies that have socialized or communist controlled
industry. They just can't do what we do. Why? Because they're not driven to do it. There's no,
hey, look, I'm running this factory for whatever for the Soviet Union. They want me to make 100
tanks. They want me to make 200 tanks. I'm going to get the same paycheck. Regardless.
And if I'm a guy, whatever, working on the fabrication of one of those tank trades, I don't
care if I make 20 today or if I make 100 today, I'm going to get the same paycheck.
So these people are going to make a lot of money because they're going to turn out
something that is in high demand. Here's how some other patriotic industrialists and speculators
chiseled their way into war profits. Take the shoe people. They like war. It brings business with
abnormal profits. They made huge profits and sales abroad to our allies. Perhaps like the
munitions manufacturers and armament makers, they also sold to the enemy. For a dollar as a
dollar weather comes from Germany or from France. But they did well by Uncle Sam too. For instance,
they sold Uncle Sam 35 million pairs of hobnailed service shoes. So that's a big number
there were 4 million soldiers, 8 pairs or more to a soldier. My regiment during the war had only
one pair to soldier. Per soldier. Some of these shoes probably are still in existence. They were
good shoes. But when the war was over, Uncle Sam has a matter of 25 million pairs of shoes left over,
bought and paid for a profits recorded and pocketed. And this is, you know, you start getting
into the idea of just like the government waste and it's just the crazy, crazy government waste.
Which is why the free market is so powerful because people try and streamline things.
There was a lot of leather left so the leather people sold your Uncle Sam hundreds of thousands
of McLeodland saddles for the cavalry. But there wasn't any American cavalry overseas.
Somebody had to get rid of this leather, however, somebody had to make a profit in it so we had a lot
of McLeodland saddles. We probably still do. Also, somebody made a lot of mosquito netting. They sold
Uncle Sam 20 million mosquito nets for the use of soldiers overseas. I suppose the boys were expected
to put it over them as they tried to sleep and muddy trenches. One hand scratching kudies on their
backs and the others making passes at scurrying rats. Well, not one of these mosquito nets ever got to
France. Anyhow, these thoughtful manufacturers wanted to make sure that no soldier would be
without his mosquito net. So 40 million additional yards in mosquito netting were sold, Uncle Sam.
You know why? Because you're not spending your own money. You're not spending your own money.
You're not spending your own money, man. You spend it on stuff. Because it's really easy to
you know what they might need them. No, let's get them. And all politics are local and who knows
who was putting in those where those mosquito nets were made. These were pretty good profits
in mosquito netting in those days. Even if there were no mosquitoes in France. I suppose if the
ward lasted just a little bit longer, the enterprising mosquito netting manufacturers would have
sold Uncle Sam a couple of consignments of mosquitoes to plant in France so that more mosquito netting
would be in order. Airplane and air and engine manufacturers felt they too should adjust their
profits out of this ward. Why not? Everybody else is getting theirs. So a billion dollars. Count them
if you live long enough with spend by Uncle Sam and building airplane engines that never left
the ground. Not one plane or motor out of the billion dollars worth ordered ever got in a battle in
France. Just the same the manufacturers made their little profit of 30, 100 or perhaps 300%.
Remember the fraud wasting abuse hotline? Apparently they didn't have that. Like in the military
echo Charles they got to think called the fraud wasting abuse hotline. You call up and say hey
we're buying plane engines. We got them lined up. We're not using them. We're buying mosquito nets.
We're not using them. Did anyone actually use that? Or do you know of anyone who I never
used it? Did you ever use it? I never used it but I know the sticker. I know if I would
had to use that. Probably to use it on my task and my platoon for the money we were wasting on
ammunition. Just slaying ammunition. Under shirts four soldiers cost 14 cents to make an
uncle Sam paid 30 to 40 cents each for them a nice little profit for the underserved
manufacturer and the stocking manufacturing and the uniform manufacturers and the cap
manufacturing and the steel helmet manufacturers all got theirs. Why when the war was over
some four million sets of equipment. Nap Saxon and the things that go to fill them
crammed warehouses on this side. Now they are being scrapped because the regulations have
changed the contents but the manufacturers collected their wartime profits on them
and they will do it all over again next time. There were lots of brilliant ideas
for making profit during the war. One very versatile Patriot sold uncle Sam 12 does in 48
inchorrentes. Oh they were very nice wrenches. The only trouble was that there was only one nut
ever made that was large enough for these wrenches. That's the one that holds the turbines at
Niagara Falls. Well after uncle Sam had bought them and manufactured and the manufacturer
profited from them the wrenches were put on freight cars and shunted all around the United
States in an effort to find a use for them. When the armistice was signed it was indeed a
sad blow to the wrenches manufacturer. He was just about to make some nuts to fit the runches.
Then he planned to sell those to your uncle Sam. Still another brilliant idea that the
Colonel shouldn't ride an automobile. Nor should they even ride on horseback. One has probably
seen a picture of Andy Jackson riding on a buckboard. Well some 6,000 buckboards were sold the
uncle Sam for the use by Colonel's not one of them was used. The buckboard manufacturer got his war
profit. Buckboard is like a wagon. It's like a carriage with leaf springs to be told behind a horse
6,000 of them. The ship builders felt they should come on on some of it too. They built a lot of
ships that they made a lot of profit more than $3 billion worth. Some of the ships were all right.
But 635 million worth of them were made of wood that wouldn't float. The seams opened up and they
sank. We paid for them though and somebody pocketed the profits. It's been estimated by status
titions and economists and researchers that the war cost your uncle Sam 52 billion dollars.
Of this sum 39 billion was expended in the actual war itself. This 6 manager yielded 16
billion dollars in profits. That is how the 21,000 billionaires and millionaires got that way.
This 16 billion dollars in profits is not to be sneezed at it's quite a tidy sum and it went to a very
few. The Senate committee probe of the munitions industry and its wartime profits despite its
sensational closers hardly had scratched the surface. Even so it's had some effect. The state
department had been studying for some time methods of keeping out of war. The war department suddenly
decides it has a wonderful plan to spring. The administration names a committee with the war
navy departments abley represented under the chairmanship of a Wall Street speculator to limit
profits in wartime. To what extent isn't suggested? Hmm. Possibly the profits of 306,600
of those who turned blood into gold in World War in the World War would be limited to some
smaller figure. Apparently however the plan does not call for any limitation of losses. That is the
loss losses of those who fight the war. As far as I have been able to ascertain there is nothing in
this scheme to limit a soldier to the loss of but one eye or one arm or to limit his wounds to one
or two or three or to limit the loss of life. There's nothing in this scheme apparently that says
not more than 12% of a regiment shall be wounded in battle or not more than 7% of a division shall
be killed. Of course the committee cannot be bothered with such trifling matters. So they put together
a committee and say well you know they're making a little too much money. We should put a limit on how
much money they can make. Possibly limit those war profits. Chapter 3, who pays the bills?
Who provides the profits these nice little profits of 20, 100, 3,500, 1,500, 1,800%. We all pay them.
In taxation we paid the bankers their profits when we bought liberty bonds at $100 and sold them
back at 84 or 86 to the bankers. These bankers collected $100 plus it was a simple manipulation.
The bankers control the security marks. It was easy for them to depress the price of these bonds.
Then all of us the people got frightened and sold the bonds at 84 or 86. The bankers bought them.
Then the same bankers stimulated a boom and government bonds went to par and above and then the
bankers collected their profits. But the soldier pays the biggest part of the bill.
If you don't believe this visit the American Cemeteries on the battlefield abroad.
Or visit any of the veterans hospitals in the United States.
On a tour of the country in the midst of which I am I am doing at the time of writing this,
I have visited 18 government hospitals for veterans.
In them are a total of about 50,000 destroyed men.
Men who were the pick of the nation 18 years ago.
The very able chief surgeon at the government hospital at Milwaukee where there are 3,800 of the
living dead told me that mortality among veterans is three times as great as among those who stayed at home.
So this was interesting because we hear a lot about what happens when we come home. We hear about PTSD.
And you see like the images of shell shock in World War II, especially in England and the Brits.
You don't hear a lot about it from World War I.
And this is a weirdly written sentence. I tried to read it in a way that made it made sense.
But it says the very able surgeon, the very able chief surgeon at the government hospital,
semi colon at Milwaukee where there are 3,800 of the living dead told me that the mortality among veterans
is three times as great as among those who stayed at home. So what he's saying is people that fought
are three times likely to die. Three times more likely to die than someone that didn't fight.
Doesn't talk about how, but my guess is a lot of those are suicide.
Or just like the crazy violent deaths that military people that have that experience end up having.
And here he goes into it a little bit. In the most simplistic and so obvious way.
Boys with a normal viewpoint were taken out of the fields and offices in factories and classrooms
and put into the ranks. They were remolded. They were made over. They were made to about face
to regard murder as the order of the day. They were put shoulder to shoulder and through mass
psychology. They were entirely changed. We used them for a couple of years and trained them to think
nothing at all of killing or of being killed. Then suddenly we discharged them and told them to
make another about face. This time they had to do their own re-adjustment without mass psychology,
without officers aid and advice and without nationwide propaganda. We didn't need them anymore.
So we scattered them about with any three-minute or liberty-loan speeches or without any three-minute
or liberty-loan speeches or parades. Many too many of these fine young boys are eventually
destroyed mentally because they could not make that final about face alone.
That's pretty straightforward. And he gives up, example here he says, in the government hospital
in Marion, Indiana, 1,800 of these boys are in pens. 500 of them in a barracks with steel bars
and wires all around the outside of the buildings and on the porches. These already have been
mentally destroyed. These boys don't even look like human beings. Oh, the look on their faces.
Physically they are in good shape. Mentally, they are gone.
There are thousands and thousands of these cases and more and more are coming in all the time.
The tremendous excitement of the war, the sudden cutting off of that excitement,
the young boys couldn't stand it. I'm going to have to dig into that and I have to get some
research going on that because that sounds horrific. 1800, 1800 men boys, he's calling them, but
this is 1935, the war ended in 1918. So these are young men and you just don't hear about this.
Hear about it now. You don't hear about it for World War One.
And in fact World War II, I've talked about well, you know World War II, you got to come
home on a ship with some other guys and you got to decompress for five or six weeks and you
held up as a hero and all this stuff and that's why it was easier to adapt. It's like,
well, what about World War I? And that freaking psychotic war.
Yeah, I mean, everything that's in my mind obviously has to be tempered with the fact that I truly
cannot claim to appreciate the reality that he is describing. He said he's been basically talking
about VA hospitals. He's been 18 different VA hospitals. This is a passion for him. He's going around
seeing what's going on. And at least in this sense of when you think about World War II that there
was this, and I got to assume it was felt at the time, it's very clear sense of good and evil,
right and wrong and the sides that we are on and the justification and the necessity, the global
necessity. And if you think about World War I, at least try to reconcile the loss and what was it
for and what was really at stake and how much blurrier, you don't feel that in World War I and
you talk about probably a nation that's just totally ill equipped to have a 25-year-old come
back after seeing what they saw without even being able to say, hey, I at least saved the world, you know,
from Holocaust or nuclear war, whatever it could have been at stake by the end of World War II,
and being totally ill equipped to know how to even handle that. At least in modern times,
right, you're at least a little bit desensitized, right? You're seeing horror movies, you're
seeing blood and guts, you're playing first person shooter video games. Like this is, can you imagine
coming from freaking Omaha, Nebraska where you're like going to school? You know, I mean, you're just
a normal kid. That might not even be the best example, because at least in Omaha, Nebraska,
you're your slaughter and pigs, you're shooting guns, but if you're in whatever, if you're from
the city and you're just not around that, you're not seeing it. And then boom, you're thrown
into World War I. And there was another section that he did that that I know about, Smellie Butler.
There was a point, I think it was when he was in China where he, for the first time saw like
mass slaughtered Japanese, and it just one of those points that he had seen some real
violence, and that was before World War I. But yeah, at least nowadays, this might be a bad thing.
Is that people are desensitized somewhat, you know, going, going, whatever, YouTube,
I don't know, does YouTube feel throughout like heinous shootings and stuff like that?
Yeah. So where do you see stuff like that now? Oddly end, I don't know, go to deep into it,
but oddly, they had a few websites out there that you could just go. Yeah. They say click here,
make sure you're 18, whatever. Yeah. And then you can watch what ever sick video you want, but
as I've noticed, not that I frequent these things, but as I've noticed, they've been kind of disappearing.
Yeah, that's interesting. Like I remember there was a video of a Russian soldier
being killed by a by a cheshishan, and it's brutal. They're putting his boot on his head, and they're
just, he's screaming and their cuteness throughout, and he's sort of like slowly, the impact of the
knife blade. Yeah, that's old school. There's way worse stuff. I'm saying that's old school, but I haven't
seen that in a long time. And but I'm sure there's like some websites where you can see all that stuff.
Yeah. And I like I said, I think they're kind of quietly doing away with them.
Maybe because they encourage certain groups to be like, oh, let's see if we can put ours up,
you know, because in that dark area of the internet, it's like the people who are responsible for
making those videos. Sometimes they get into these little competitions to see who can make
the sickest video. Well, and they go hard for sure. Even if you just saw rated our movies,
you would be more accustomed to this kind of scenery. Oh, yeah. And you have like, like, yeah,
the exposure of what war actually is is way more now compared to that time like that. Yeah, if you
watched saving private Ryan, yeah, you're like, okay, man. I mean, this is, oh, yeah, and there's
reports, plenty of reports like World War II veterans that we're at D Day. We're totally, you know,
thought that nailed it and they were very disturbed in watching it. And had to take a break,
had to walk out whatever because it was so realistic. So that's going to condition you. But if you
leave freaking Maryland where you live in a small neighborhood and your dad works at the factory
and next thing, you know, you're in World War I. And then, and then all of a sudden, three weeks
later, you're back back in Maryland. You're in your neighborhood. Yeah, it's going to be a rough one.
That's a good way to put it. Well, I was like, hey, they take you out of your normal world and make
you do it about face with all this essential training and like all this, you know, this influence
and stuff. And then when that's done, just all of a sudden, a do another about face, but hey,
do it on your own kind of a thing. Same thing. That's exactly what happened to you know, that song
by the White Buffaloly played on here. It's called Wish It Was True. Well, when he was on here,
he played that song and I actually had like asked him to play that song. Yeah. And, um, but the song,
you know, it's got a line in there that basically says, hey, you're just a number and we used you
in your through and there's a couple of people that you know, left some comments or hit me up like,
this is an anti-war song. What are you talking about? And I was like, hey, bro, this is what happens.
Yeah. It doesn't happen all the time, but this is a, this is a song written from someone's individual
viewpoint of, hey, went to war, whatever war it was, maybe it was World War One World War Two,
World War, uh, Korea Vietnam. There's plenty of people that went to those wars,
came home and this is exactly what happened. That's what that song is about. It's not saying,
oh, you, you just got used by the every single soldiers, not saying that. But there, this happens.
This does happen. And that's why it's such powerful song. This might sound a little bit insensitive,
but you know, you don't, you don't ramble. That's what that story was essentially about.
When you watch First Blood, you know, right? Like, that's essentially what it was about.
And then they, then they, of course, they do them dirty again, send them to jail and then
ramble too. They're like, oh, wait, we need that guy again. You know, let's go get that guy. And then they
do them try to do them dirty again. Same same thing. That is essentially the story. You know,
and it's not, and, and look, there's plenty of people that come home from war and they get,
they're able to deal with it. And they go cool, you know what, I did what I had to do. And now I'm
going back to the work, you know, go back to the factory, I'm going back to the construction site,
going back to the, to the insurance business that I'm running or that I work at. Like,
people, people do, and they also saw different things. Or did this person see? They'll do different
things. What did this person do? So we got to take all these things into account. But no,
like you just pointed out, echo, the fact that you're going to take hundreds of thousands of people
in World War I and World War II, you're going to take hundreds of thousands of people
and train them to kill. And then when it's over, you let cool, we're good. I appreciate it, see you later.
And I mean, I don't, uh, Eugene Sledge. I mean, he had a really hard time when he came home from war.
A really hard time when he came home from war. And he still carried on with his normal life. I mean,
actually all those guys did, um, all those guys that were over there had a real hard time. But
there's also millions of veterans that came home and like, they carried on with their life.
You know, I mean, um, I mean, if had had him on this podcast, I mean, Charlie Plum, how does he come
home from six years of captivity and just like, okay, well, you know, do you know, we're going to move on?
William Reader. By the way, William Reader 40 years, like stayed in the army for another,
whatever 38 years, huh? Doing his job, getting a fit rep. How do you write a fit rep for
for William Reader? How do you not just say, hey, sir, what look, I'm supposed to be a charge of you.
You just sound like what you want to do because you have done more than for the military than I could
have ever hoped to have done. And I appreciate you sitting here and not like, not like beating me up,
or whatever, not not counseling me on what an idiot I am. So there's plenty of people that
come home and they, they, all right, now I will say this and Charlie Plum pointed this out to me,
they're the amount of like, post-traumatic stress that the guys that were in the Hanoi
Hilton had was less on average than normal, infantrymen. And it's because they had this camaraderie.
At least that's what he said. At least I think I remember what he said. But what they had this camaraderie
said was like, hey, you know, we were all, and they had time to process it and, and then they got this
huge beautiful welcome home. And I mean, when I, it was Jim Serlesley, I think it was Jim Serlesley,
when he, you know, he's lost both legs and his arm and the guys came home from being POWs
with the white, you know, with the big reception. He was like, hey, bro. I understand you guys
were held captive. I'm sorry, you know, I, I got back and just went to a freaking rehab for nine
months and then I'm out here with one arm. So that probably helped the guys that were cap captives
in Vietnam as well as that they got a very warm welcome home. And as we know, a lot of
Vietnam veterans did not get a warm welcome home. And from what it sounds like here, same thing,
World War I, oh, the look on their faces physically, they're in good shape mentally, they are gone.
I wrote that down to that, that the metaphor that he describes about, we take them, we have them
doing about face and then we have them doing another about face and it's they can't do that second one.
We have them do the second one on their own on their own and they can't do it.
It's not unreasonable to think and just I was literally just thinking about what, who are you?
If you're a 21, 22 year old male in 1914, go to World War I, who are you? And it's, it's not
unreasonable to think that they had no idea what war was period, what war was. And if you think about
today like joining the military to your point, at least some exposures, successful anybody,
you have some idea what war is. You've seen Pultoon, you've seen Cole Metal jacket, you've seen
Save in Private Ryan, you've seen Apocalypse Now, you've seen all these movies. Yes. And it's in the
National Psychic, you people are talking about it, people have been talking about it, if you were in
World War I and you're 20, I mean the last, there's a story that's probably due to math, but like
this, unless you have some connection to the Civil War which ended 50 years ago and you're
getting stories from your grandpa, you have no idea what war is and then you're going to World War I.
Where the use of human capital, the use of human being was less significant than
than any other piece of material that was out there. And today like I did 23 years in the
Marine Corps, I retired like five years, it's like 30 years coming up on my military experience.
We take excessive, sometimes tactically unsound lengths to preserve American lives.
Now obviously we know that doesn't always work out, but we don't buy design waste lives.
And you can kind of almost count on that like, hey, there, there are no more human waves.
There's no way, hey listen, Jens, have a seat, let's talk about this plan.
We know we're all going to get wiped out, but we have to go do this.
Those conversations aren't really happening. And so you kind of know what you're getting into
a little bit, at least softens out a little bit, you know what war is, some idea what to
words going to be like, I can't imagine a bigger contrast at being 19 years old age are going
to Europe and like, hey, where is that? Okay cool, it's here. Hey, what country is that?
That's this country here. Okay, who are we fighting? These people over here, how does this
gonna work? Well, when you get there, we'll show you. Okay cool. And then you see World War
1. Yeah. The second about face to do on your own. Yeah, it's going to be rough. It's not going
to work out, right? And he's not touring the country going. Yeah. And yeah, the frustration is,
should we probably take a couple of those dollars? I mean the sarcasm with with just the
sea so should we take a couple of those dollars? It may be help these folks with that about face
these patriots over here making money. Again, and this is just me saying, I can appreciate
this point of view, get where he's coming from. And this is, this is not some coward. This is not
some, this is not a dude who's sitting on the sidelines casting judgment. This is a guy who,
who, for whatever got back in the, this is a guy who can speak, you know, of a first person
point of view certainly again. So he gets done talking about that part of the bill and he says,
that's a part of the bill. So much for the dead, they have paid their part of the war profits.
So much for the mentally and physically wounded. They are paying now for their share of the war
profits. But others paid too. They paid with heartbreaks when they tore themselves away from their
fire sides and their families to down the uniform of Uncle Sam on which a profit had been made.
They paid another part in the training camps where they were regimented and drilled while others took
their jobs and their places in their lives and in their communities. They paid for it in the
trenches when they were shot at and they were shot, where they were hungry for days at a time,
where they slept in mud and cold and rain with the moans and shrieks of the dying for a horrible
lullaby. But don't forget the soldier paid part of the dollars and cents bill too.
Up to an including the Spanish-American War, we had a prize system and soldiers and sailors fought
for money during the Civil War they were paid bonuses and many instances before they went into
service. The government or the states paid as high as $1,200 for an enlistment.
In the Spanish-American War they gave prize money when we captured any vessel vessels,
the soldiers all got their share. At least they were supposed to.
Then it was found we could reduce the cost of wars by taking all the prize money and keeping it.
But constricted, conscripting, the soldiers anyway. So it's going to the draft. Then soldiers
couldn't bargain for their labor and either. Everyone else could bargain. But the soldier couldn't.
Napoleon once said, all men are enamored of decorations. They positively hunger for them.
So by developing an Napoleonic system, the metal business, the government learned to
get soldiers for less money because the boys like to be decorated. Until the Civil War there
were no metals. Then the congressional metal of honor was handed out. It made enlistments easier.
After the Civil War no new metals were issued until the Spanish-American War. In the World War
we used propaganda to make the boys accept conscription. They were made to feel ashamed if they
didn't join the army. So vicious was this war propaganda that even God was brought into it.
With a few exceptions our clergymen joined then in the clamor to kill, kill, kill, to kill the
Germans. God is on our side. It is his will that the German should be killed. And in Germany the
good pastors called upon the Germans to kill the Allies to please the same God. That was part of
the general propaganda built up to make people war, conscious and murder, conscious.
Beautiful ideals were painted for our boys who were sent out to die. This was the war to end
all wars. This was the war to make the world safe for democracy. No one mentioned to them as they
marched away that they're going and dying would mean huge war profits. No one told these
American soldiers that they might be shot down by bullets made by their own brothers here.
No one told them that the ships on which they were going to cross might be torpedoed by submarines
built with United States patents. They were just told it was going to be a glorious adventure.
Thus having stuffed patriotism down their throats it was decided to make them help pay for the
war too. So we gave them a large salary of $30 a month. All they had to do for this magnificent
sum was to leave their dear ones behind, give up their jobs, lion swampy trenches, eat canned
willy when they could get it and kill and kill and kill and be killed. But wait, half that wage
just a little more than a riveter and a shipyard or a laborer in a munitions factory safe at home
made in a day. Half that wage was promptly taken from him to support his dependence so that he would
not become a charge upon his community. Then we made him pay what amount to to accident insurance,
something the employer pays for in an enlightened state. And that cost him about $6 a month.
Yet less than $9 a month left. Then the most crowning influence of all he was virtually
blackjacked into paying for his own ammunition clothing and food by being made to buy Liberty
bonds. Most soldiers got no money at all on paydays. We made them buy back, we made them buy Liberty
bonds for $100 and then we bought them back when they came back from the war and couldn't find
work at $84 and $86 and the soldiers brought a bought about $2 billion worth of these bonds.
Yes, the soldier pays the greater part of the bill. His family pays to
they pay it in the same heartbreak that he does as he suffers day suffer. At nights as he lay in
the trenches and watch Shrapnel burst about him, they lay home in their beds and tossly
plously. His father, his mother, his wife, his sisters, his brothers, his sons and his daughters.
When he returned home minus an eye or minus a leg or with his mind broken, they suffered too.
As much and sometimes even more than he, yes, and they too contributed their dollars to the
profits of the munition makers and bankers and shipbuilders and the manufacturers and the
speculators made, they too bought Liberty bonds and contributed to the profit of the bankers
after the armistice in the hoax post-pocus of manipulated Liberty bond prices.
And even now the families of the wounded men and of the mentally broken and those who
were never able to readjust themselves are still suffering and pain.
Fact check. I'm going to go ahead and say truth.
So it's going on.
Chapter 4.
How to smash this racket?
Well, it's a racket all right. A few profit and the many pay.
But there is a way to stop it. You can't end it by a disarmament conference. You can't eliminate it
by peace, parlaise, Geneva, well-meaning but impractical groups can't wipe it out by resolutions.
It can be smashed effectively only by taking the profit out of war.
The only way to smash this racket is to conscript capital and industry and labor before nations
manhood can be conscripted. And there's this interesting thing I got to point out when he talks
about capital, industry and labor. He's talking about those groups of people.
And I'm not going to check. It would be saying like the capitalists and the industrialists
and the labor force. You could say that but that's what he, there's the words he uses
this capital industry, talking about those people.
One month before the government can constripped the young man of the nation,
it must constripped capital and industry and labor. Let the officers and the directors and the
high-powered executives of our armament factories and munition makers and our shipbuilders and
airplane builders and the manufacturers of all other things that provide profit and wartime
as well as the bankers and the speculators be conscripted to get $30 a month the same
wage is the lads and the trenches get. But the workers and these plants get the same wages.
All the workers, all presidents, all executives, all directors, all managers, all bankers,
yes and all generals and admirals and officers and all politicians and all government officer
office holders, everyone in the nation can be restricted to a total monthly income not to be
not to exceed that paid to the soldier in the trenches.
Let all these kings and tycoons and masters of business and all those workers
in industry and all our senators and governors and majors pay half of their monthly $30 wage
to their families and pay war risk insurance and by liberty bonds. Why shouldn't they?
They aren't running the risk of being killed or having their bodies mangled or their minds shattered.
They aren't sleeping in muddy trenches. They aren't hungry. The soldiers are.
Give capital and industry and labor 30 days to think it over and you will find by that time
there will be no war that will smash the racket that and nothing else.
Maybe I'm a little too optimistic. Capital still has some say so capital won't
permit the taking of profit out of war until the people those who do the suffering and still
pay the price make up their minds that those they elect to office shall do their bidding
and not that of the profit yours.
You know so here you get to like a kind of an argument that's hyperbole right?
Hey what you need to do is first just if you're going to go and you don't know what to
argue with it because it makes sense but it's just a unrealistic thing to think about.
Unfortunately, guys we all get the idea. You want to go you want to go to war?
Cool and he's the interesting he's not going to talk about them going to war. He's just talking
about you just get the pay and he's only talking about for 30 days. He's only talking about for 30
days. 30 days you know you're the CEO of a defense company for 30 days you're going to get this pay.
I actually don't think that's enough right now and they get to have to be all a lot more.
You always hear that and actually when you when you read about the Vietnam War,
one of the things that really started to turn the tide of the American public against the Vietnam
War was the draft because all of a sudden it wasn't just the freaking poor redneck from West
Virginia or the inner city black kid from Harlem that was getting shipped off the war.
All of a sudden it was like oh you're from wherever and your dad is a lawyer. Your dad is a judge.
Your dad is a business owner and you got a bunch of money and guess what? Yeah, load up,
load up on the bus because it's time to go get some and that's as that expanded and normal
richer people started going to war. It was like rich kids the rich parents started sending their
kids off to war. That's a problem and that's one of the things that started to push the
the resistance against the Vietnam War because when it was just hey we're sending a bunch of
damn poor people. Hey cool whatever that's not my kid my kid's not my kid's going to freaking
a college next year. He's not going to boot camp. He's not going to nom. So I don't care. Yeah,
it seems like a great idea. Let's stop calming us over there until little Johnny gets freaking
called up and then they're like oh maybe not. So I would say from that perspective that's
that's a good assessment realistic assessment that if you start saying oh yeah you want to
say you want to send America to war cool your kid goes people start changing their freaking minds real quick.
Factually. He doesn't stop there he's got another step another step which is funny because he
he starts off by saying this the only thing you need to do but he does have another step.
Another step necessary in this fight to smash the war racket is limited a limited
plebiscite sorry plebiscite which is a plebiscite is a direct vote like I just a vote plebiscite.
Another step necessary in this war in this fight to smash the war racket is the limited plebiscite
to determine whether a war should be declared a plebiscite not of all the voters but merely of
those who would be called upon to do the fighting and dying. There wouldn't be very much sense
in having a 76 year old president of a munitions factory or the flat-footed head of an international
baking firm or the cross-eyed manager of a uniform man your manufacturing plant all of whom
see see visions of tremendous profits in the event of war voting on whether the nation could
should go to war not. They never would be called upon to shoulder arms to sleep in the trench
and to be shot. Only those who would be called upon to risk their lives for country should have
the privilege of voting to determine whether the nation should go to war.
There is ample precedent for restricting the voting to those affected many of our states have
restrictions on those permitted to vote in most it is necessary to be able to read and write before you
may vote in some you must own property it would be a simple matter each year for the men coming
of military age to register in their communities as they did in the draft during the World War
and be physically examined those who could pass and who were therefore to be who were therefore
be called upon to bear arms in the event of a war would be eligible to vote in a limited
plebiscite. They should be the ones to have the power to decide and not a Congress.
Few of those few of whose members are within the age limit and fewer still of whom are in the
physical condition to bear arms only those who must suffer should have the right to vote.
As I said in a non that kind of work people said not Johnny. He said there was one step
and he introduced to here's the third one. A third step in this business of smashing war
rackets to make certain that our military forces are truly forces for defense only at each
session of Congress the question whether a further naval appropriations comes up.
The swivel chair addables of Washington and there are always a lot of them are very
a droid lobbyist and they are smart. They don't shout that we need a lot of battleships
we need a lot of battleships to war on this nation or that nation. Oh no first of all they let
it be known that America is metast by a great naval power. Almost any day these admirals will tell
you the great fleet of this supposed enemy will strike suddenly in an eyelet 125 million people
just like that. Then they begin to cry for a larger navy for what to fight the enemy.
Oh my no oh no for defense purposes only. Then incidentally they announce maneuvers in the
Pacific for defense. Uh-huh the Pacific is a great big ocean. We have tremendous coastline on a
Pacific. Will the maneuvers be off the coast two or 300 miles? Oh no the maneuvers will be 2000. Yes
perhaps even 3500 miles off the coast. The Japanese are proud people. Of course we'll be pleased
beyond expression to see the United States fleet so close to nippons shores. Even as pleased as
would be the residents of California where they did dimly discern through the morning mist
the Japanese fleet playing at war games off Los Angeles. The ships of our navy it can be seen
should specifically limited by law should be specifically limited by law to within 200 miles of
our coastline. Had that been the law of 1898 the main never would have gone to Havana Harbor.
She never would have been blown up. There never would have been no war with Spain with the
attendant loss of life 200 miles is ample in the opinion of experts for defense purposes.
Our nation cannot start off an offensive war if it is ships can't go further than 200 miles off the
coastline. Plans might be ready to go 500 miles from the coast for the purpose of reconnaissance
and the army should never leave the territorial limits of our nation.
Summarize three steps must be taken to smash the war racket. One we must take the profit out of war.
Two we must permit the youth of the land who would bear arms to decide whether or not there should be war
and three we must limit our military forces to home defense purposes.
Again not great strategic plan does sit back and like to stay in your own
AO you want to project power a little bit you have to piss people off but you definitely want to
project some power out there. Where are you right now Dave? I'm just summarizing what he said.
I'm just trying to I'm spending this all this time just trying to appreciate what he's saying.
Because obviously and I'm going to wait you know I know there's a couple more things to read here.
I'm going to I'm going to wait to the conclusion but I spent a lot of time in my own
brand saying I hear what you're saying. I hear what you're saying. Well this is a but there's a yeah
well this is the thing that we have to do and that's like what the whole start of this thing.
Hey listen man we just spent a trillion dollars totally now in a 20 year war
and when we got there the Taliban was in control of whatever percentage of the of the country
and now we left and they're now going to control 100% is the of the country told we spent a trillion
dollars we have thousands of lost lives we have thousands more wounded named for life.
Yeah and and and you have to at least open your mind and say okay what was this guy talking about?
Yeah well was he talking about because like you said this isn't some on chair quarterback
this is a guy that fought.
What chapter five to hell with war? I am not as fool to believe that war is a thing of the
past. I know the people do not want war but there is no use in saying we cannot be pushed into another
war. Looking back Woodrow Wilson was real is reelected president in 1916 on a platform that he
had quote kept us out of war and quote and on the implied promise that he would quote keep us out of war.
Yeah five months later he asked Congress to declare war in Germany and that five month interval
that people had not been asked whether they had changed their minds. The four million young men who
put on uniforms and marched or sailed away were not asked whether they wanted to go for
if it's to suffer and die. Then what caused our government to change its mind so suddenly?
Money. Money. An Allied commission it may be recalled came over shortly before the war declaration
and called on the president. The president summoned a group of advisors. The head of the commission
spoke stripped of its bipelomatic language. This is what he told the president and his group.
There's no use in kidding ourselves any longer. The cause of the Allies has lost. We now owe you
American bankers, American, American, American makers, American manufacturers, American speculators,
American exporters, five or six billion dollars. If we lose and without the help of the United
States we will use we England, France, Italy cannot pay back this money and Germany won't. So
end quote had secrecy been outlawed as far as war negotiations were concerned and had the press
been invited to be present at that conference or had the radio been available to broadcast the
pre-seedings. America never would have entered the world of war. But this conference like all
war discussions were shrouded in not most secrecy. When our boys were sent off to war they were told
it was a quote war to make the world safe for democracy and a quote war to end all wars.
Well 18 years after the world has less of the democracy than it had. Besides what business
is it of ours whether Russia or Germany or England or France or Italy or Austria live under
democracies or monarchies whether they are fascist or communist are promised to preserve our own
democracy and very little if anything has been accomplished to assure us that the world war was
really the war to end all wars. Yes we have disarmament conferences and limitations of
arms conferences they don't mean a thing. One has just failed the results of another had been
nullified. We send our professional soldiers and sailors and our politicians and our diplomats
to these conferences and what happens? The professional soldiers and sailors don't want to disarm
no admiral wants to be without a ship no general wants to be without a command. Both mean men
both mean men without jobs they are not for disarmament. They cannot be for limitations of arms
and in all these conferences lurking in the background but all powerful just the same are the
sinister agents who profit by war. They see two at that these conferences do not disarm or
seriously limit armaments. The chief aim of any power and any of these conferences has not been
to achieve disarmament to prevent war but rather to get more armament for itself
and less for any potential flow. I remember having this thought when Ewen I were in the
Battle of Romani and that thought was how freaking awesome the US military was and how much
of that awesomeness relied on these individual human beings that were making things happen.
Because when you look at the operations that were taking place when you look at the effort that was
put forth it was literally platoon commanders company commanders battalion commanders brigade commander
that was that was through force of will making things happen. Making things happen you could if if
if the brigade commander didn't really care and just wanted to kind of do a deployment getting
under his belt and just like yep I did my deployment. If he didn't care if you didn't want to do good
we wouldn't have done anything. Yeah right. Oh the battalion commander that's going to push into
an area of operations that hasn't been pushed into there is individual effort.
And here's what scary is looking the battle of Romani we were trying to we're trying to
stabilize and secure the city of Romani. If there is no goal like that, a clearly defined goal
and you have people that are trying to do make their best individual effort to make their mark
to leave their mark to do something to get a good fit rep. What are you going to do? You're going to say
why I'm going to do this we're going to do that we're going to expand we're going to grow more I need
more people. This idea that there's no real competing, competing asset or competing
competing perspective of someone that's saying hey wait a second what are you actually doing
over there? I mean if let's say you and you are in the Marine Corps and you are supposed to train
Iraqi soldiers and I do turn over with you and you say hey Jaka we train 100 Iraqi soldiers and
I go that's great how many Iraqi soldiers do you think I'm going to train? How many think?
At least the 101 at least the 101. Yeah I'm going to do more than you totally.
I'm going to do more new I remember this is back in the day I remember going out on a
workups with the with the fleet and you could see I did a workup with the fleet that was I
wasn't I wasn't embarked but we did some work with Marines then my next deployment I did
a full workup with the Marines then the next one I did another full workup with the Marines so I
did basically saw three workups in a row with the Marines and each one of them was a little bit more
each workup was a little bit more sure to hey oh yeah you guys did you guys did four amphibious
landings I'm gonna do five we did five oh what about the next one the next I do in six
this is real yeah I had similar experience and even in training you know classic
question was the the outgoing squadron versus the incoming squadron how many pounds of
orders did you drop you know 74,000 cool hey right on the board we're dropping 75 okay
and that's why I said 101 yeah yeah yeah whatever that is yeah 100% 100% so when you get so
that that just reminds me what we're talking about here which is no admiral goes you know what I
think we need less ships the amount of admels that say that is zero the amount of generals that say
I need less divisions I need less brigades I need less battalion the number of generals that say
that is zero or you know sure are there some I'm sure there are but the vast majority and those
those few that say well I think we need less ships he's not gonna he's definitely not getting promoted
I'm gonna see you know yeah you definitely not gonna be to see you know hey I'm the guy that
downsize the Navy promote me it's not happening right it's not happening hey I got us less brigades
less combat brigades good job yeah let's promote you no one says that so you have this self-fulfilling
prophecy and the self-licking ice cream cone which is a term I understand what it means but I'm not exactly
sure you know where it came for right but that's what you have right is we want to have more and
that's exactly what he's talking about here there was no one there was very few people
that would come back and say hey yeah the Iraqi soldiers we had to do it in a body we had to say
these guys are not ready yet because it was it was so obvious what would happen if we just sent
them out on their own and they tried I mean remember they turned over like some of the checkpoints
like two nine or five and they turned it over and and two days later the insurgents hit it and
overrun it yeah ECP three down there by on the bridge same thing turned it over to the Iraqi
is hey these guys are ready you know it's like actually know they weren't ready and they got annihilated
so there wasn't really the the opportunity for us to be like well yeah the Iraqi troops that we
are trained are now 100% what they call it what they call it they're ready for unilateral operations
right I didn't send up a message and yep our Iraqis that we've been training for six months
are now ready for unilateral operations even though that was what everybody wanted us to say but
we couldn't say it there because you would find out on their first operation that there is no possible
way they were ready but if we would have been a more permissive environment the pressure to say
yeah hey they can connect unilateral in the unilateral operations the pressure would have been so
great because otherwise me like hey jacco the last the last task in a commander that was out here has
you know he trained up four platoon special mission unit elements that are now that were now
ready to perform unilateral operations what did you do I'd be like well actually I don't think
those four are even capable and we should downgrade them what's wrong with you jacco the last task
in a commander was able to is why couldn't you do that so you we could have felt that pressure
and a lot of times people break to that pressure I mean obviously I think that happened a lot
in Afghanistan yeah we trained these guys for six months and who says yeah we trained somebody for
six months they're not capable we trained them for a year they're not capable it's difficult it's a
difficult thing to do it's also difficult to assess so I think you get this that's what he's talking
about here there's no no animal wants to be without a ship no general wants to be a lot of command so what
do they do they want more there's only one way back to the book there's only one way to disarm
any semblance of practicality that is for all nations to get together and scrap every ship every
gun every rifle every tank every warplane even this if it were possible would not be enough the
next war according to experts will not be fought with battleships not by artillery not with rifles and
not with machine guns but it will be fought with deadly chemicals and gases secretly each nation
is studying and perfecting newer and ghastly remains of annihilating its foes wholesale yes ships
will continue to be built for the ship builders must make their profits and guns will still be
manufactured manufactured and powder and rifles will be made for the munitions makers must
make their huge profits and the soldiers of course must wear uniforms for the manufacturer must make
their war profits too but victory or defeat will be determined by the skill and ingenuity of our
scientists if we put them to work making poison gas and more and more finished mechanical and
explosive instruments of destruction they will have no time for the constructive job of building
greater prosperity for all peoples by putting them to this useful job we can all make more money
out of peace then we can out of war even the munitions bakers so I say to hell with war
and that's the end of it again you know he's in the end you know kind of got the fantasy
got the fantasy argument of hey can't we just have people working on good the have the
scientists working on good stuff instead of evil stuff and like yeah cool like so it's such an
extreme argument that people go oh he's he's crazy right and let's throw this whole book out but
if we're to actually listen to what he's saying and maybe put some of it in the crazy pot
and put some out in the just factual pot and then some of it is debatable like okay what does that
actually mean how does that apply today I think it's I think it's very important for us to do that
I was recently on Russell Brands podcast and the thing is it's behind a paywall is that right
yes pay a firewall paywall it's behind a paywall and so Russell Brand if you don't know who he is he's a guy
from England super nice guy very funny guy he's he's originally a comedian kind of a movie comedian
yeah kind of and a performer as well so yes aka all this snow what's his now all this snow that's his
other alias oh really yeah that's like his character you know and what's that guys supposed to be like
singer really yeah get him to the Greek uh forgetting ceremonial look into it that's who Russell Brand is okay
he's a man so it was an actor too yes super nice guy and he asked me to be on his podcast and it was
pretty it's pretty cool because he started off the podcast he was saying like he's been real
complimentary of me and like and and just being nice you know this guy you know he thanked me for my
service and and you know he he said I did great bunch of great stuff and and real complimentary
little nice and and I kind of said hey man I appreciate it I said bro I'm not like this I'm not a rare
hero from the military I said I had a kind of average career and then he goes well you know I just
wanted to say that because I want you to know that I respect the military but because I want to set
that up properly because I also have like some issues and I'm gonna probably go he didn't use the
term hard in the paint because he's from England but he basically meant I'm gonna go hard in the paint
on some topics and then I said well hey you should then know that even though I spent my
don't life in the military I was also like a hardcore kid growing up listening to heavy metal
plane and bands I'm a rebellious kid I listened to punk rock and heavy metal and so you should just
know that too that even though I because he he also mentioned the music as I look like a hippie and
I was like because I know I look like a the most military human that you could imagine that's true
yeah that I also know that you know you should know that I'm kind of a rebel and that's well and so
then we had a little laugh and so so eventually you know we get to we start having the conversation and then
he posed this kind of two questions and they were somehow paired up or they were somehow there was
like a semi colon between them meaning they were attached they weren't quite separate but they were still
attached but they were they were a little bit separate so the one of them was like isn't war driven
by the profitability of the military industrial complex that was kind of question to one of them
one and then similar question isn't capitalism and and businesses and corporations aren't
they simply driven by the profitability for the rich owners and shareholders so that was kind
of the question aren't these two major forces in the world the military and the corporate world aren't
they just driven by greed essentially and then I answered him and you know my answer was well
Russell the answer is yes and I think I think he was a little bit taken aback by that
answer but the fact that matter is it's true that profits certainly drive corporations
to do things to to make products and defense companies certainly get rich during wars as we just
heard from smedly balder those totally true totally true and just like smedly balder like
you and I were saying that that's like one part of the argument that's not the only driver
that's not the only driver and I mean for the corporate example I work with hundreds of companies
and Dave you work with hundreds companies and the companies make money they make a lot of money
and they are certainly driven by profits in some way but they're also making products that people want
and they're making products that people need and they're employing people and they're making
products that make people's lives better that's what's happening in the vast majority of cases
no better example than medical device companies pharmaceutical companies and I've worked with
scores of medical device companies I've worked with scores of pharmaceutical companies over the last
decade and some of those companies that I've worked with that you've worked with Dave some of those
companies make hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars in profit billions of dollars in profit
and so you could say here's a well that's what's driving them just to want to make money but
I have also seen and met their patience along the way
you go to event and they got a man or a woman or a child a little boy or a little girl and the
only reason that that child is still alive is because of this device that that company makes
or this drug that this company makes that's why they are on stage they will present
and they'll get these people up there and say thank you and those patients who are only
alive because of these companies are grateful to be alive and they are overjoyed that those
capitalist doctors were greedy enough to take the risk and invest money and push hard
and toil I do the work to create products that actually saved people's lives
and the same thing the same thing can be said for war the same thing can be said for war
and I have participated in wars that made some defense companies tons of money
you know I said I said this Russell brand something along the lines of like listen
I could be talking to my platoon and say all right guys here's what's going on tonight
we're going to go out we're going to risk our lives and I just wanted to let you know that every
round that you fire is going to put 12 cents into the pockets of the wartime profitiers
right and that would actually be true because that is true those those rounds cost money
and those defense companies make money from those things but I also know what happens on the ground
Dave you know what happens on the ground I know I know that we help people the people on the ground
I know that we killed evil terrorists and insurgents that systematically tortured and raped
and murdered the innocent local populace I know that we did that I know that we were able to protect
children from these insurgents from these tears I know we were able to protect families I know
that those families wanted these insurgents out of their city and out of their country
and so while there were defense companies certainly making money there was a simultaneous
good that was taking place then we took lives but we also saved lives and that's the truth
enriching global corporations and enriching the military industrial complex that enrichment
certainly influences behaviors right it influences someone that's making a weapon system
to try and make their weapon system better to try and make better body armor there's a
there's someone right now as we speak that is trying to make better body armor and part of the
reason that trying to make it is to protect the American soldier but guess what they got a mortgage
to pay and they want to make better body armor because they want to make more money and if they
can make better body armor then the US government goes wow that's lighter it's stronger it
provides more protection we're going to buy it it's not that the person is just thinking about money
but the money that the the two goals are aligned there's a simultaneous drive that is that is moving
behavior in the right direction and oftentimes like I just use that example body armor they're aligned
with this company out there
acme body armor they want to make best body armor
and they want to make it do they want to protect Americans yes they do do they want to make money yes they do
so I have no problem with that if they're aligned it works out perfectly here's the problem
the problem is if they're out of alignment that's where it can become awful and that's what we
need to watch out for what is the driving force behind going to war are we going to work
is the right thing to do are we going to war for benevolent reasons are we positive that it will
have a positive impact that will offset the natural negative impacts of work because when you
go on a war there's going to be negative impacts people are going to die people are going to
get wounded and is the positive impact going to offset that negative impact is it going to help
stability in the world is there a strategic benefit for us as America
if we're going to war for those reasons because there's going to be a strategic advantage because
it protects our national security because it's going to be truly good for the people on the ground
that need protection that need help to get out from a tyrannical or evil regime and there are
evil regimes and if you don't think there's evil regimes you're wrong because there's people in the
world there's regimes in the world that will systematically rape little kids so if we're going to war
for those reasons okay we can consider it if the primary driver of going to war is to make money
if it's to profit if it's to sell more guns and bombs if it's not going to stabilize the
world if it doesn't help us protect our national security if it's going to be a strategic defeat
then we're wrong and can there be alignment by these two drivers yes there absolutely can
I don't mind I don't mind someone making great body armor making money off I don't
make I don't mind somebody making a great weapon system that makes a bunch of money and it
helps us win a war I have no problem with that at all but if these things aren't aligned and
we're fighting for money you're fighting for profit and we're not getting positive impact and
we're not getting strategic benefit well then we need to listen to major general smedly
butler and say to help with one that's what I'm thinking. Dave I'm with you I was thinking of a
story as you as you said that I I don't even remember why I was in the Pentagon but I was in the
Pentagon for something and it was maybe like I was just taking over this F-35 job and how
to go meet somebody in the Pentagon whatever Dave came up to the Pentagon I talked to some
general I'm literally walking the halls of the Pentagon and I run into who is an old
battalion commander that I work with who is now I happen to be a one star just literally walked
into him in a you know waiting room of some office somewhere waiting for some meeting and we
bumped into each other and he was there with a couple people from a company in industry so
civilians in the industry and he was there to show the technology of a helmet that they designed
to stop a 762 caliber sniper rifle a helmet light enough what's strong enough to stop a sniper
rifle and for those of you who are listening to don't know the story of and I've talked in general
terms about my radio operator Chris Leon who was on my team the first Anglico Marine killed my
radio operator was killed in the money the first Anglico Marine killed an Iraq was my radio operator
was shot and killed by a sniper that pierced his helmet went right through the temple of his helmet
and killed him was I onboard with this company making profit making money off the American
taxpayer to design a helmet that would somehow have prevented what happened or at least can prevent
what might happen in the future yes I'm on board of that plan I'm onboard with that plan and I
support that plan and I want that plan to not only make them money but make enough money to
continue to build even better technology grow their company and be a positive force for whatever
may happen so I am I am totally on board with that idea and this idea of alignment
and while where I struggled especially towards the end listening to him talk you reading
his words was I think a trap that is so easy to fall into is that we describe it as the
government or industry or the military one of the things that I've learned in our current
jobs that these are actually people they're people the military is just people and generals
and animals are regular people and you know what there are some really good ones and there are
some not so good ones and people in the government I know classmates in mind that are that work
in the government and you know what they try to do most of the time every day the right thing
they try to do the right thing do they always do the right thing no are their forces it
play that make a difficult of course but when you fall into this trap of like oh it's the government
it's really is it created an error to buy which they're only goal is to somehow
whether it's lying there pockets or whatever that might be is we lose side of the fact that most
of the mechanics that are going on inside industry these companies we work with are regular people
trying to do the right thing even for the most part of my experience at the highest levels we work
with CEOs of multi billion dollar companies and what you get to know is that for the most part
for the most part they're people trying to do the right thing they try to make money yes
because for a whole host of good reasons they want to pay their bills they want to pay their
people they want to grow they want to expand they want to build bright products and they're
safe they can reach more but all these things and I'm not naive and I don't want people to think
the exact opposite of like everybody's just altruistic and for the for the big no that that's not the
case but there's a trap that we can fall into which was there's this this thing the industry
well if it's just the industry then yeah it's easy to paint them as this this this
thing that's not a real thing it's not a person it's not a human being and what this thing
wants is to just soak up dollar bills or waste human life to get to their end state
with no regard for that and and that is a that is a trap that I think it's easy to fall into
and you can hear his words like hey hang on a second just hang on who is this company who are
these industries or governments or whatever these things we're talking about most of the time
most of the time that are people trying to do the right thing that's what they are most of the time
yeah you know it's survivor biases yes yeah do you know what it is there things up it's like
if you go out and you talk to 10 people that started companies and you say you know hey
how hard was it started company they're all like yeah it's pretty easy man you're not talking
to the 90 other people that failed so you get this survivor bias we get echelon from probably
have a little bit of echelon front bias which is we move the companies that we work with they
right extreme ownership they're in the game they listen to podcasts like these these are
companies that have a good sort of fundamental value system so we we kind of have a little bit of
that bias because you're right the amount of companies that we work with were I've said wow
this guy is gonna put this product out there that's harmful or this guy or this woman is
making a decision that's gonna cause their employees to suffer it doesn't happen it does now
other companies like that yes there are and and but I would tell you same thing even though even
with even if you take into account the EF bias the echelon front bias which is that most
people that we work with have a good value system even without accounted for most companies
these these days you have to have a good value system you have to be doing the right thing because
there's just too much information out there and a damn yelp review I mean on the like this
the base level hey if you run a restaurant and you treat your employees or your customers bad
a yelp review now you go big and you run into you know the Wall Street Journal is doing an
expose on what you did to maximize profits while you hurt your you know your your employees or
your clients or whatever so so the even in cases where you have people that might not be the most
altruistic people yeah the reality of modern technology keeps the vast majority of them in check
yes so that's true the other thing is look there's gonna be these two these two things they create a
nice positive natural tension that's what we want we want to have someone saying like hey
yeah if you guys go to war we want you have the best gear that's good and the other the jett the
the business should be saying hey if we want you to go to war we want you have the best gear and
the general should be saying yeah we don't want to go to war but if we do we want the best gear
there's a little tension these guys might want to go to war more these guys might not but
there there should be a natural tension and I think what we have to watch out for is when there's no
when people lose that when there's no tension when there's no one saying hey you know you know
you know I just want you to think about something if we go to war it's Johnny over here that's
gonna get killed that's gonna lose his legs whatever the case may be that's what we never that's what
we need to make sure people think about and you know this goes back to one of the actually I
think it might have been the first like everything that I got recorded saying was when we did the
war fighters thing for the history channel about markedly and I've repeated this on a bunch of
occasions well you know when it's time to go to war and it's time when you are willing you
you are willing you have the will and but it's the will to die and it's the will to kill and that's
what's gonna happen you're to war so you need to put that overlay on this yeah and if you ever
forget about that overlay that you think well you know this is worth it because it's gonna be beneficial
okay cool it's gonna be beneficial to the people there you know that we're gonna kill some of the
people there not just the enemy but some of the people that are there are going to die because of us
and we're going to have our own people killed that's what we need to think about we can never lose
that tension and and I think that that tension does get lost I think that the people that that
hold their hands they have a long way to second but what are we doing here and and part of the
reason is because when is it there's a saying old men want to go to war and young men do too I mean
you know it's that's a thing you survey freaking 19 year old kids that are in the Marine Corps
and you ask them how many people how many you want to go to war and there's a big
percentage that's coming through in the affirmative and that's the coolest part about the common
about that tension which is I mean that's actually the tension that you want is I want I actually
want Marines that want to go to war so I want them reason want to go to war and do I love the idea
of rolepiece yes I love that idea I love that idea that idea is not going to happen today or tomorrow
it's not going to happen and is as much as I love the fantasy of this the the simple things
we need to do to to achieve that the the tension is you know with that reality too is that hey
not only is that not likely there are people that actively do not want that actively do not
want that and you know he I was he was talking about you know the next step is we're going to
see war with chemicals and and he was sort of foreshadowing what then and he was correct obviously
you know we we know that there is you know some of those things he saw that it won't work to the chemical
warfare and he was foreshadowing this ever growing capacity for people to wage war against each other
and these awful awful ways well you know you could get rid of all the weapons in the world and
there's people waging wars computers now so this this this persistence of the reality
even with some of the nefarious things and the profit here's the my path there there's a reality
out there that we also need to accept and face and I want to be around people that want to do that
I want to be around those people and I want Marines I want Marines that have that exact same feeling
and yes you want to manage that and temper that and guide that and shape it yes all those things
but I want to be around those people and I think that that tension that you talked about that
natural tension because those two things exist in the world and to pretend like they don't is
is not a good plan yeah I don't know what the percentage of people let's say you let's say you
do what they said if you take the young man that are going to have to go to war and they get to vote
I almost feel I almost don't feel super comfortable with that because I think a lot of them will be like oh yeah
it's on here's my chance yeah it's on but I'm not sure that's also my own warped
that's sort of the jockel bias which is I think everyone's kind of thinks like me which I know
is not true there's also a chance that I'm wrong and a bunch of people would say no matter what
was happening in the world maybe like no we're not going to war you know what I mean so you
got to have somebody with a detached perspective yeah that's actually saying you know what now
is not the time to go to war or a detached perspective and say hey we're looking at this whole thing
we see Nazis we see them running rough shot all over we need to do something about this
and you described it again I I you know when you call it the tensioner or this idea hey when
you've got some skin in the game when it's not Johnny it's your Johnny when you're talking about
who's going to war yeah I love that idea of oh you're talking about me now okay hang on let me
let me put some thought into it because in the end the answer actually might still be yeah I'm
gonna send my son off to war but I'm certainly gonna think about it a lot harder the closer it is
to me and I mean that's been the challenge in society forever which was do we want to
insulate our people for more yeah we do I want I want to insulate America for more and you could look
it we talked about Afghanistan are there some good things that come out of that yeah absolutely
and if you insulate them so much if you if you remove them so much that they don't even
understand what really is happening those decisions actually aren't the best decisions because
what are they care right yeah yeah it's a great idea go go go go to war
doesn't affect me at all I don't want a society that has no impact on that either and even
inside that you talk about the tension of I want to keep I want to separate us from that as much
as possible but it's not but not so much that don't understand what it actually what what that
really means is send somebody off to war we were just talking an hour ago when these people
went to war war one to even know what they were doing they even know what it meant to send someone
to war and there's just no way yeah there's some some great things with technology and and
if you're doing something for the wrong reason it's pretty it's it's much harder to hide that now
than it ever used to be if you're industrial plan or your company plan is really in affairs
you're running the risk of getting found out there's just too much information that's free
out there it's really hard to keep those secrets anymore but send somebody off to a war war
one you think anybody really knew what that meant no and do I do think they should know a little bit
yeah I see his point it's your kid going you might think twice before you send him put to
like you said too they're actually times so you know say yeah because the alternative they're
that's not acceptable well definitely I think the lesson here is keep your minds open
and listen and try and understand these various perspectives that are out there because I bet
there's a bunch of people that hear this nigga what that guy was a traitor or whatever they're
going to say yeah or say yeah yeah and it's just that's just makes it so interesting because
it can't call a guy that did what he did in his life a traitor and what we should actually do
is listen that's what we should do with an open mind when an open mind goes a long way yeah
with that echo Charles yes sir so we're trying to keep our minds open but we're also trying to
keep our minds sharp yes sir keep sharp minds got to keep the vessel that the mind is contained
and got to keep that kind of up and running sure concur the brain well yeah no we're the brain
the brain is in the body sure let's call more specifically more specifically yep so you look at you
yeah I'm trying yeah creative to my comments there was there was a there was a part in there where he was
he was kind of going hard you know exposing all these profits and all this stuff and it makes sense man
so and you can kind of get a taste of his emotional state right it makes sense but also you
got to say hey man if I was having to fight the freaking Nazis how happy am I that I have some
Americans steel manufacturer that is stay in awake 24 hours every scene that that when they used to
build those liberty ships you know what I'm talking about Dave there's these big liberty ships
that were used to transport stuff back and cross back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean
yeah they were making them in a day a freaking whole ship bro this is impossible and America was
doing it in a day now if I was over there on the front lines and I needed some more ammunition I would
be so damn happy and I would be more than happy that people are making a bunch of money now the
profits get a little bit extreme maybe they got a little extreme yeah so in that that's kind of
the point there where you can kind of he goes hard in like both directions and you're like oh man
I see I especially when he's talking about the waste you know like the ships that don't even run
and it's like no we're still paying the bill and it's like and then meanwhile you know from his
perspective he sees all the all the downside of war right hardcore and then he kind of see
and he looks and he sees all these numbers all these dollar signs that go to other people
whatever who are making shady ships and all this stuff oh man I get it but he went a little bit too
hard and a button and even the in these little subtle way extreme extreme so he can make you
shut it up about that little bit yes and and I was trying to stay like with you guys were like okay
get it no no maybe not but there was a part he was talking about the boots right he was like
all they made all these boots and like all this stuff whatever and I'm so thinking wait that's the
we kind of need those boots but we only had 4 million soldiers and we bought 25 million boots
yes okay and then that part it's like okay yes as far as the waste goes 100% that's going to
apply across the board um and then he he went on to even add like oh those were good boots
yeah yeah I was like yeah we need those boots yeah but we need the way of course we need the
waste that's the same thing with the ships and all that stuff but so you could tell like all you
get it is kind of detached from like that very specific perspective just a little bit in your
like okay this kind of might not be getting it you know in certain ways well I don't think that's
a great example because you can also say hey he gets it these are boots we need boots they're
good boots they're probably lasting for a long time we didn't need 25 million pairs you know
bro yeah it's true yeah so he he's getting it where he loses it is just saying that that's the
only reason that they're doing it right and that's what I mean where and because that's it's
seem like it put it this way it seemed like he was going hard in that direction it's like that's
what he kind of wanted you to think yeah it's it also shows you that the you know you have a
government organization that's running things and it's not your money yeah you're gonna get
fraudwaste in abuse yeah that's why that's why it's usually better to have a little bit less
government control over things yeah that's a cheap thing is decentralized is possible and I know
I covered a little bit of of Thomas Sol's book I think I don't know if I even got to it it was I don't
think you were on the podcast was with Jordan Peterson but he got this little section where he
just talks about how freaking hard it is to like control price you just you can't you can't do it
you can't control price has to do with the pelts of some animal and there's a worth a certain amount
and then he goes through how hard it is to control the price and then he says in by the way there's
whatever 1.2 billion products or line items that you need to control the price of it's impossible
you gotta let the free market work a little bit and that's where you run into problems where you
have the free market brush up against the government the government checkbook and they're like
yeah we can make a you probably need 25 million boots how many soldiers you got 4 million
sign here yeah it's true because you know like you would you get what the old thing the irresponsible
person with a crew when they first get a credit card kind of feels like oh so my money right
so then they overspend they can't pay that can stuff so it's like and like it makes sense that
phenomenon does make sense people will spend their other people's money like crazy they do it all
time that's where the government does the government spends other people's money all the time
you know do we need to spend some money yeah yeah but if you looked at it from like a household
perspective if this if this either this state wearing California or this country if you look
at it from that standpoint of hey our budget you know we make you hey look here's hey you know
hey darling life we make $5,000 a month that's how much income we bring in we're gonna buy a car
that's gonna cost us $2,000 a month that we're gonna rent an apartment that's gonna cost us $4,000 a month
and they're gonna go out to eat every night that total is gonna be $7,000 a month you can
figure out real quick like oh I'm in the hole this is the credit card problem yeah so but if it's not
our money yeah we're kind of like hey we're gonna do that a little bit so good yeah yeah well
I don't think it's got to careful with this stuff yeah all right what do we got so speaking of being
careful I like it we got to be careful with what we put in our bodies especially on this path the
path is hard they broke I'm saying it's hard it's not always easy it's fun can be fun from time to
time let's you when you're collecting those long-term gains seems to be capability cognitive enhancement
smart all that stuff better decision making too either way we're on this path we want to stay
healthy stay ahead of the game health wise day by notice you drinking the mango discipline good
choice you could drink the orange could have but have a little bit of love hate relationship
with the mango stand fully so discipline go that's what this is that's what we're talking about here
it's a healthy energy drink yep it's a big deal most times energy drink as we know or as we
knew oh I know where I'm gonna go with this right now where are you going well we were talking
earlier about the fact that hey most companies are out there trying to do the right thing you
know and guess what we have we have some companies that are out there saying oh you know what
if I can cut the cost my product by a little bit add some chemicals to it that are a little bit cheaper
give people an addictive thing called sugar and they'll just buy more of it cool so we got our
example now we got some nefarious companies out there making poison and feeding it to people it's
it's kind of a spectrum to and consider I'm not just saying necessarily energy drinks or whatever but
like in general especially when it comes to stuff that you eat or bleeding about whatever because
you're dealing with two different forces there yeah you don't know if you're talking about that though
is this like is the attitude like yeah but that's what people want right that's what I'm saying
there's two different forces and that's not a good that that's that's what people want that doesn't
mean you can't just make adjustments to give them what they want and not give them poison
hey some people want crack some people want some people want vodka straight up mainstream some
people want vodka is vodka good is vodka good no kind of hard to make the argument on you know
many many levels either way I dig where you're saying but guess what we don't have to worry
about that can't stop anymore we are not in a various company we are making the clean the clean
energy drink both uh win win upside short term upside long term in many ways too by the way
this electrolytes in this one yeah imagine just being saying oh yeah you want to try something
all upside all how often you get that in life you know here's something all upside yeah and
as far as like the mango flavor is like really upside yeah that's what's interesting it's like
it's compared to other flavors which is just normal upside which I understand of course
either way if you want if you want to take part in this energy drink rather than the poison
is starting to go down the path now we're now we're starting to talk about nefarious
companies I'm going straight to the clothing manufacturers next that are out there cut in the
corners and saying oh we'll just get this made in China we got slave labor over there we got the
weegers over there in actual slave labor camps making your making your shorts how's that feel
don't feel good no I don't feel good about it that's why you know what I don't get I don't get
shorts that are made in China yeah I dig it but back to the energy drink okay you want to stick
with those fermento and physical enhancements chance your capability also you can get stuff to
to take you out of any kind of roadblocks or speed bumps in recovery we got protein we got stuff for
your joints we got stuff for immunity we also got protein but you could actually just call it
dessert yes another one of those if you don't have any emergency you have a day I thought I ran
on a peanut butter wait peanut butter flavor milk peanut butter flavor milk yeah but then it
was in the back of the Japanese but I was like speaking a crack yeah I look like a crack
crack cocaine addict right and through yeah yeah yeah yeah I was one of my daughters just like
went ham on the peanut butter yeah yeah and it was like down take out I got to you know half a scoop
which is not gonna get you through the moment where you uh you mentioned your daughter and
their older your kids are older my kind of young where I play tricks on them where they're not
tricks it's a strategy it's the same so I don't give them milk when they want it I mean one it's
like a reward yeah you seem saying he creates that that demand yeah same same so one they when they hit
it boom that's the standard of the standard payoff of the dessert seem same meanwhile they're getting
the the tail end of benefits same yeah that's a good idea I'm out of peanut butter by the way
be little's on the case with the long one over your train that's for sure not you're going to
much stuff where we get this stuff jockel fuel dot com also okay the energy drinks you can get
it while while you can get it right in the shop you can get a jockel fuel dot com um the
rest of the stuff mostly jockel fuel dot com and right in the shop yeah hey just real quick if you
want it delivered if you don't want to run on a peanut butter milk or whatever else if you don't
run out of dirt if you subscribe to it shipping's free so that's our way of competing with some other
large corporations that may not be as benevolent the jockel fuel yeah it's a good move right there
subscribe to percent also origin USA this is where you can get American made stuff you said it you mentioned
it like some time a some places some some some of those that that some of the people where
it's made with slave labor straight up and varying levels of slave slave labor to you can go
deep in that rabbit hole find out some stuff they brought you know yeah you can go on
not whatever those other youtube channels are that you were talking about you can watch
you know little kids get beaten because they didn't produce enough freaking pairs of
shorts yeah you can go deep for sure but without depressing anything but the
factories where they got nets around them for some of the people trying to kill themselves
they they hit the net and then they drag them back in and put them back in from the sewing machine
yeah that was really scare I didn't know that that was real that's real yeah but that's a scary
thing to consider like that's how common it is that they have a straight up SOP like a little
protocol in the place oh yeah this is just to prevent the people from from actually dying one they
try to commit suicide that's what we want another day and a half a little bit we need that
labor seems same for this for clothes so we're not not down with that we're not that down with
that so all this stuff is a made in America b made in America by people who want to make this
this stuff they're so fired up like Brad just grab one person from there okay so you can and you can
see this on their youtube channel by the way but you see the people making it they're probably
like explained the whole thing yeah no but like oh yeah this one is this and this is the
fact I saw one where they were saying hey I'm making this for this very specific person I was like
dang help that's where I want to get my stuff from for sure or genus a dot com it's true
lady America yeah jetz is still home in America yeah seeds jetzu stuff it boots by the way
we have we made we sold the government 24 million pairs boots we haven't yet but even if we did
we wouldn't sell them 24 million not necessarily out of they don't need to know especially because
these boots are gonna last yeah so and you're gonna look good too let's face it yeah echo if
yeah if echo ever goes into combat he's gonna be like he's gonna keep the point of
the earth well that that's something that does have some value same same because I think
a lot of people we care about like at the very least a little bit about what it looks like
same same put on the Delta 68 it's not like I didn't look in the mirror I was like it's not
like I was like you sure they fit and then just kind of walked out and just I looked in the mirror
a little bit and in fact I remember what I read shirted and football and we're warming up for the
game you know you can you can suit up for the game when you read shirt for football and the coach said
he was like dang echo looks good and is uniform he's not ready to play but he looks good and is uniform
that could be also a foreshadden of your tactical yeah your tactical missions in life you might not
be ready to operate you are a love good yeah that's what I felt when I put him in Delta 68
yeah I'm not ready for you know the the mecon Delta but I'm ready to wear this stuff for
a hundred percent unless get it all the origin USA it's good stuff guilt free stuff and superior
stuff yeah another win win on that one also chocolate is a star called jocostor they go to jocostor.com
that's where you can represent hardcore on the path discipline equals freedom good it's a good way
look at things good you're watching video yeah that would help a lot of us through some stuff man
unless you want to represent that's where you can that's some other stuff on there some shorts
some hats some goodies women's stuff you heard me say that's good thing for the first time
we like all this is good yeah that is he like knew at the moment yeah well if you remember how that
video came about or whatever if you didn't want to call it coming about I had my camera in the corner
and when I was reading the notes like you know I'll just go over the notes whatever I was like
oh that one's gonna be a good one so I didn't even take out the camera and set it up if you
notice if you remember yeah I kind of brought it out of the corner and if you watch that video
if you look close you can see like there's like my computer monitor kind of obstructing like
it's it wasn't set up it's just like I just sort of started running it because I thought oh yeah
that's looked good in the notes check you out dude so you just put some trick in music on that
button and send it out nonetheless you want to represent like I said jocostor.com go there
be like something get something also we have a subscription thing too free shipping on this one as
well so new maybe more creative designs on that one good feedback on that one check yeah
sure sure that says check the help the studio yeah also shenel uh there's a we haven't
oh my gosh to the sea wolves on there we've got an homage to another group that we have
grown very fond of that's all I'm gonna say that means back that thing that's all it out
that's all that's all that means back that thing before you're rolling out yeah why
is because I got to oh you got to be a ominous don't want to okay just a confirmed right
there have been errors made in the past I think we don't need to bring them up right now but
there have been things that have been created without approval and they were not correct
all right well you know it's a risk we all run but yes that's correct and occasionally occasionally
you know look I'm I'm prone to run the things a little bit too decentralized that's kind of what
I do yes but occasionally let's do a little inspection to make sure we aren't
making mistakes that we don't want to make what we call a QA quality of course sure it's on
this before you print the shirt and send it to people you should do that yeah I think you might be
right about that actually okay I understand what you're saying now yes I remember I remember
Dave Birkin now actually Dave Birkin was a big part of that rectification okay yeah yeah
when I say a big part I mean the part so let's let's just do a review this is what we'll call it
a review hey subscribe to this podcast whatever you subscribe to podcast we also have
jockel unraveling we have the grounded podcast we have warrior kid podcast we also have
jockel underground where we are talking about let's see closely related topics we're answering
Q&A so there's a special way you can send your questions in and so we're answering Q&A on there
and it is also our place to go in the event of problems problems you know if we get banned
you always like gloss over the oh just do Q&A or whatever and a lot of those questions are like
that's like advice like if you want life advice from jockel it's sort of the essentially it's calling
my guess it is bro it is and jockel will like life coach you jockel underground dot com hell yeah
it sounds funny when you say like that but conceptually you know it's because I said that for the first time
along like before I even got out of the navy because guys are coming to me and be like it is going
on a bad jockel like life coach you know and I'd say there's what you need to do bro
and it's effective I'm telling you sometimes like they'll ask these questions and I'll be like
oh y'all read the question or whatever and you think you know you think you know what I'm going to say
well I had a lot of times I do know what you're going to say in general but here's the thing
here's what happens sometimes where someone I'll read the question and I'll be like oh yeah
that's a unique question for that person you know it doesn't really apply to me so it'll be
interesting to hear jockel's answer which I may or may not know the answer you know for us the
one he's going to give but then you expand on this answer it's like wait a second I think I didn't use that
right there it's just insane so it kind of like it kind of affects your life even even though
the questions not like necessarily just yours if you got questions you want to answer do you want to hear
what we talk about on that underground podcast go to jockel on the ground dot com because
$8.18 a month that's how you're supporting that whole thing if you can't afford it it's cool
we still want you in the game email assistance at jockel underground dot com we have a YouTube channel
you can subscribe to that also origin USA has a cool YouTube channel with a shown behind the
scenes it's going on psychological warfare is an album that echo made I talked on it it's
we made okay so we made as a little collaborative effort I came up with the things I wrote it I
then I did the words and then I said them in a proper way and echo collaborated by pressing
record which was cool yeah I do so if you want to get the psychological warfare you need a little
help getting through some moment of weakness we got you jockel life coach okay we got you
if you want something hang on your wall is going to flip side games dot com to code a mile
speaking of metal on of honor to code a mile without question earned that thing and he's got
a cool company made in America flip side canvas dot com making stuff to hang on your wall
got a bunch of books final spin coming out soon we don't even know what is it a book
is it a novel does a poem is it what do you call it Dave you've read it literature it's all those
things I guess I know what it says in the cover yeah what is the cover final spin oh it says on all
things yeah that's right they have to call it something it's more than that I know that for sure yeah
check uh then we have leadership strategy and tactics field manual they can answer all your
questions about leadership the code the evaluation of protocols you got to know you got to have a code
you got to evaluate yourself you got to follow some protocols in life there you go we wrote them for you
me and Dave Burke discipline to create them field manual way the warrior could want to three and four
Mikey in the dragons about face by hack worth I wrote the forward to an extreme ownership and
the academy of leadership that I wrote with my brother life babbin echelon front we have a leadership
consultancy and what we do is we solve problems through leadership go to echelon front dot com if you
want to have us engage with your company your business or your team go to echelon front dot com
that's also where you can find out what about the live events that we do we do the master
big leadership learning session two days long next one up is in Vegas last Vegas
October 28th and 29th we also do field training exercise we run around and detect
commissions and utilize the principles of leadership we do EF battlefield tour get his bird
primarily we don't make you march there but we do walk around there and and learn those lessons
we have an online training course because we we want to get this information to as many people
as possible how do you do that how do you scale that I can't be everywhere Dave can't be anywhere
everywhere life babbin can't be everywhere jpg can't be everywhere we can't just be everywhere
so what we did is we consolidated information onto the extreme ownership academy it's leadership
courses we do live sessions on there all the time if you have a question you come there and ask
me go to extreme ownership dot com for that if you want to help service members active and
retired their families gold star families check out mark least mom momily she's got a charity
organization that does all kinds of great stuff for military members and our veterans if you
want to donate or you want to get involved go to america's mighty warriors dot org and if you want
more of my prolonged proclamations we need more of echoes derelict decrees you can find us on the
in a website on twitter on the gram on facebook echoes at accoutrails i am at jockel one like where
you had david david our book david our book i escaped the uh the ridicule the ridicule it's nice
what ridicule you know what derelict decrees if you if all right if you're not getting ridiculed it
means people don't like you and many thanks to all the men and women in the army navy air force
marines you are the ones that carry out the will of our country and you are also the ones who pay
the price and we are forever indicted to you for your sacrifice and to police law enforcement
firefighters paramedics emt's dispatchers correctional officers border patrol secret service
and all first responders you step up and you protect us here on the home front and we are indicted
to your service as well how do everyone else out there this might seem obvious but think about
what you're doing way the risks and the benefits the strategic benefits the reward
and the consequences and make sure make sure that you are doing the right things
for the right reasons and until next time this is dav and echo and jackel